1|9376403.ab.7|M2
The culture of 38 adenoids yielded S. pyogenes and beta haemolytic group C streptococci in 6 cases each one (15.7%).
culture|culture|0|10|4|10|The culture|
PMID- 9376403
TI  - [Beta-hemolytic streptococci in tonsil hypertrophy and recurrent tonsillitis]  
AB  - BACKGROUND: The recurrence of streptococci acute tonsillitis is a complication that often motivates the tonsillectomy. We studied the colonisation of tonsils and adenoids by S. pyogenes and other beta haemolytic streptococci in both surgical indications, recurrent tonsillitis and tonsillar hypertrophy. METHODS: We made for aerobic culture the following specimens, throat swabs, tonsils and adenoids tissue corresponding to 47 children referred for tonsillectomy. RESULTS: S. pyogenes was isolated in 11 cases (23.4%) of tonsils and other beta haemolytic non A streptococci was isolated in 11 cases, of them, group C streptococci was the most frequent with six cases. However in the recurrent tonsillitis group, S. pyogenes was isolated more significantly (47%) that other beta haemolytic streptococci (5.8%). Otherwise in the tonsilar hypertrophy group, S. pyogenes was isolated in the 10% while that other streptococci was isolated in the 33.3%.  The culture of 38 adenoids yielded S. pyogenes and beta haemolytic group C streptococci in 6 cases each one (15.7%). CONCLUSIONS: S. pyogenes was isolated more frequently in recurrent tonsillitis that other micro-organisms while that in the tonsilar hypertrophy group predominated streptococci beta haemolytic non A, S. aureus and H. influenzae. Is of interest that the adenoids in our study showed an important reservoir of beta haemolytic streptococci. The throats swabs yielded less of the half of all beta haemolytic streptococci isolated in tonsilar tissue cultured.
culture|culture|1057|1067|1061|1067|The culture|

2|9329020.ab.1|M2
Several models for preparing and isolating human and animal gallbladder epithelial cells, including low-grade gallbladder carcinoma cells, as well as proposed systems for culturing these isolated epithelial cells are reviewed here.
culture|culturing|167|179|171|179|for culturing|
PMID- 9329020
TI  - Monolayer and three-dimensional cell culture and living tissue culture of gallbladder epithelium.  
AB  - Several models for preparing and isolating human and animal gallbladder epithelial cells, including low-grade gallbladder carcinoma cells, as well as proposed systems for culturing these isolated epithelial cells are reviewed here. Several reports concerning tissue culture of the gallbladder are also reviewed. The cell culture systems are divided into monolayer cell culture on collagen-coated or uncoated culture dishes or other culture substrate and three-dimensional cell culture in collagen gel. To prepare and isolate gallbladder epithelial cells, digestion of the gallbladder mucosa, abrasion of the mucosal epithelial cells, and excision of epithelial outgrowth of mucosal explants are applied. In monolayer cell culture, most of the specific biological features of isolated and cultured cells characteristic to the gallbladder are gradually lost after several passages, though quantitative and objective analyses of the pathophysiology of cultured cells and their secretory substances can be performed. Tissue culture using explants of the gallbladder has mainly been used for physiological studies of the gallbladder, such as investigating the transport of water and electrolytes. In this tissue culture system, quantitative assessment is difficult, though the original and specific biological and histological characteristics of the gallbladder are retained. Three-dimensional collagen gel culture could be an ideal model combining monolayer cell culture and tissue culture systems, and create controllable conditions or environments when several biologically active substances, such as growth factors, proinflammatory cytokines and adhesion molecules, are added to the culture medium. Advantages and shortcomings of individual cultivation models are discussed, and selecting the culture model most appropriate to the purpose of the study will facilitate investigations of the biology and pathogenetic mechanisms of gallbladder diseases such as cholelithiasis.
culture|culturing|294|306|298|306|for culturing|

3|9363902.ab.8|M2
CONCLUSIONS: In peripheral blood mononuclear cell culture streptococcal erythrogenic toxins are able to stimulate tryptophan degradation in humans via the induction of interferon-gamma production.
culture|culture|50|56|50|56|culture|
PMID- 9363902
TI  - Streptococcal erythrogenic toxins induce tryptophan degradation in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: In various cells including monocytes the cytokine interferon-gamma as well as lipopolysaccharide induce indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase which degrades tryptophan to form L-kynurenine. We addressed the question of whether the exposure of human peripheral mononuclear cells to superantigens derived from streptococci is associated with tryptophan degradation in vitro. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were exposed to streptococcal erythrogenic toxins A and B and a streptococcal-derived mitogen named BX. In addition, the myelomonocytic cell line THP-1 was treated with these toxin preparations. RESULTS: In peripheral blood mononuclear cells all three toxins induced tryptophan degradation. In parallel, production of interferon-gamma was found, and the tryptophan degradation could be blocked by antihuman interferon-gamma antibodies. Tryptophan degradation was not induced when the human myelocytoma cell line THP-1 was stimulated with these toxins, but there was a costimulatoty effect to interferon-gamma. CONCLUSIONS: In peripheral blood mononuclear cell culture streptococcal erythrogenic toxins are able to stimulate tryptophan degradation in humans via the induction of interferon-gamma production. There seems to be no direct effect on myelomonocytic THP-1 cells. Because some of the degradation products of tryptophan, such as quinolinic acid and kynurenic acid, are toxic, superantigen-driven degradation oftryptophan may play a role for example in the development of the toxic-shock-like syndrome associated with severe group A streptococcal infections.
culture|culture|1217|1223|1217|1223|culture|

4|9331497.ab.2|M2
The suitability of highly porous three-dimensional sponges fabricated from poly (L-lactic acid) [PLLA] as an hepatocyte culture system was evaluated in this study.
culture|culture|103|133|120|126|as an hepatocyte culture system|
PMID- 9331497
TI  - Highly porous polymer matrices as a three-dimensional culture system for hepatocytes.  
AB  - Hepatocyte-based therapies (e.g., hepatocyte transplantation and extracorporeal support devices) may provide alternative therapies to treat patients with liver disease, but suitable approaches to localize these cells to a given location while maintaining liver-specific gene expression must be developed. The suitability of highly porous three-dimensional sponges fabricated from poly (L-lactic acid) [PLLA] as an hepatocyte culture system was evaluated in this study. Sponges were fabricated utilizing a particulate leaching technique, and were approximately 95% porous, with an average pore diameter of 180 microns. Hepatocytes seeded into these sponges adhered and remained viable for 14 days. However, the secretion rate of albumin from these cells, an indication of liver-specific gene expression, was low (approximately 6 pg/cell/day at day 1), and decreased steadily over the 14 days of the experiment. Coating sponges with collagen, and more preferably, immobilizing cells within the PLLA sponges with a collagen gel, led to enhanced cell survival and albumin secretion at all time points. These data suggest that porous PLLA sponges may provide a novel system for long-term culture of hepatocytes, and proper design of the system may allow the liver-specific gene expression of hepatocytes transplanted in these matrices to be enhanced.
culture|culture|523|553|540|546|as an hepatocyte culture system|

5|9316635.ab.8|M2
In addition, we found that N- and/or C-terminal-truncated peptides of p195-212, presented under the same culture conditions to different clones bearing the same TCR alpha beta chain, could elicit very different proliferative responses from the clones.
culture|culture|90|122|105|111|under the same culture conditions|
PMID- 9316635
TI  - T cell receptor expression and differential proliferative responses by T cells specific to a myasthenogenic peptide.  
AB  - Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a T-cell-regulated autoimmune disease in which a pathological autoantibody response is mounted against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor of the neuromuscular junction. Our laboratory previously identified a T cell epitope, p195-212, derived from the human acetylcholine receptor alpha subunit, which triggered PBL to proliferate from about 70% of MG patients tested. p195-212 was also found to be an immunodominant T cell epitope in SJL mice and a cryptic epitope in C3H.SW mice. Inoculation of naive SJL mice with cells from a p195-212-specific syngeneic T cell line caused MG-related autoimmune manifestations in those mice. In these studies we analyzed TCR alpha and beta chain sequences used by T cell lines and clones from both high- and low-responder mouse strains in response to p195-212. T cell lines generated from either strain expressed single TCR V beta gene segments (V beta 17 in SJL mice and V beta 8 in C3H.SW mice). By deleting V beta 17-expressing T cells in p195-212-immunized SJL mice we established a T cell line that expressed the V beta 6 gene product, suggesting that SJL mice are not limited to using a single V beta gene segment in response to p195-212. In addition, we found that N- and/or C-terminal-truncated peptides of p195-212, presented under the same culture conditions to different clones bearing the same TCR alpha beta chain, could elicit very different proliferative responses from the clones. Thus, even within a constrained system, factors other than TCR sequence contribute to the differential stimulation of T cell responses.
culture|culture|1445|1477|1460|1466|under the same culture conditions|

6|9330849.ab.5|M2
RESULTS: The majority of RPE cells expressed all isoforms of CD45 on their membranes and the pattern of expression of these molecules was not modified by culture.
culture|culture|151|161|154|160|by culture.|
PMID- 9330849
TI  - Expression of hematopoietic cell markers by retinal pigment epithelial cells.  
AB  - PURPOSE: We investigated the expression of various isoforms of the hematopoietic cell marker CD45 on retinal pigment epithelial cells in relation to their expression of CD68 and the cytokine-reactive intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). We also determined the effect of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1 beta, TNF alpha and IFN gamma on the expression of these molecules by RPE cells in culture. METHODS: Monolayers of RPE cells between 3rd and 7th passages were cultured in the presence or absence of cytokines, followed by immunohistochemical staining for CD45 (170-220 kD), CD45RA (205 and 220 kD), CD45RO (180 kD), CD68 and ICAM-1, using the alkaline phosphatase-anti-alkaline phosphatase (APAAP) technique. Total (membrane and cytoplasmic) expression of each of the three CD45 isoforms was determined by enzyme-linked immunoassays (ELISA). RESULTS: The majority of RPE cells expressed all isoforms of CD45 on their membranes and the pattern of expression of these molecules was not modified by culture. The greatest intensity of membrane staining was consistently observed with antibodies to CD45RA (205 + 220 kD), while CD45 (170-220 kD) showed to be the predominant isoform within the whole cell, as judged by ELISA assays. Unlike the membrane expression of CD45, only 20% of RPE cells stained for the macrophage surface molecule CD68 following 4 h of culture, but progressive increase in the proportion of CD68 positive cells was observed by extending the culture to 24 and 48 h. Neither the expression of CD68 nor the various isoforms of CD45 were modified by incubation with pro-inflammatory cytokines. Staining for ICAM-1 was observed in 21-25% of RPE cells throughout the 48 h culture. However, incubation with 50 pg/ml of IL-1 beta, TNF alpha and IFN gamma caused a marked increase in the RPE cell expression of ICAM-1 following 4, 24 and 48 h culture. CONCLUSIONS: The observations suggest that hematopoietic cell markers are constitutively expressed on RPE cells and that functions governed by these molecules are not influenced by pro-inflammatory signals. Expression of hematopoietic molecules by RPE cells may influence the macrophage-like properties of these cells and may also aid in the identification of RPE cells during pathological processes, particularly in the proliferative retinopathies, where these cells undergo phenotypic and functional changes.
culture|culture|1112|1122|1115|1121|by culture.|

7|9344540.ab.5|M2
The addition of heparan sulfate, heparitinase, and phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C to the medium perturbs the in situ path of growth of the Fe2 axons and the location of the MPC in cultured embryos.
culture|cultured|192|211|195|202|in cultured embryos.|
PMID- 9344540
TI  - Mesodermal guidance of pioneer axon growth.  
AB  - Pioneer axons in insect legs are experimentally accessible model systems for the molecular identification and cellular localization of guidance cues regulating the path of axon growth. A detailed study of the Fe2 pioneer axons in the legs of the cockroach was performed to examine the diversity of guidance mechanisms. A detailed microscopic analysis of the axons at various points in their trajectory indicates that the Fe2 axons grow on a mesodermal substratum which contains the cues guiding their growth along a stereotyped path. An identified pair of muscle pioneer cells (MPC) are likely to play an important role in enabling the Fe2 growth cones to respond to mesodermal guidance cues. The addition of heparan sulfate, heparitinase, and phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C to the medium perturbs the in situ path of growth of the Fe2 axons and the location of the MPC in cultured embryos. This indicates a role for heparan sulfate proteoglycans and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins in axon guidance. When these results are compared to those of similar experiments performed on the well-characterized Ti1 axons, they indicate significant differences in the mechanisms that are used for axon guidance. The Fe2 neurons are a good model for elucidating the mechanisms used to guide axon growth on nonmuscle mesodermal substrates often encountered in the periphery of vertebrate embryos. Copyright 1997 Academic Press.
culture|cultured|958|977|961|968|in cultured embryos.|

8|9246763.ab.4|M2
This steady-state culture was then switched to fed-batch concomitantly with exposure to stress.
culture|culture|0|24|18|24|This steady-state culture|
PMID- 9246763
TI  - Fed-batch cultivation of bakers' yeast: effect of nutrient depletion and heat stress on cell composition.  
AB  - The physiology of a commercial strain of bakers' yeast was studied in terms of the cell composition under different growth conditions and of its response to stress. The study comprised fed-batch experiments since this is the system used in bakers' yeast industry. The classical fed-batch fermentation procedure was modified in that the yeast cells were continuously grown to a steady-state at a dilution rate of 0.1/h in order to achieve more or less the same initial starting point in terms of cell composition.  This steady-state culture was then switched to fed-batch concomitantly with exposure to stress. The highest amount of trehalose accumulation was achieved when nutrient depletion and heat stress were applied concomitantly. The highest amount of trehalose, 12%, was attained in cells stressed by both nitrogen depletion and heat stress. The protein content remained constant, although with some oscillations, at a value of 30% throughout this dual stress experiment.
culture|culture|649|673|667|673|This steady-state culture|

9|9379114.ab.4|M2
During these striking morphological changes in culture the expression and activity levels of 3 beta-HSD type 1 and P450scc increased significantly as isolated cytotrophoblasts progressed to a differentiated state, with P450scc and 3 beta-HSD type 1 mRNAs activities being more abundant in cells cultured for 48 to 72 h.
culture|culture|47|53|47|53|culture|
PMID- 9379114
TI  - Expression of the genes for 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 and cytochrome P450scc during syncytium formation by human placental cytotrophoblast cells in culture and the regulation by progesterone and estradiol.  
AB  - We have investigated the expression of cholesterol side-chain cleavage cytochrome P450 (P450scc) and 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) type 1 genes during human trophoblast differentiation in culture and the modulation of their steady-state mRNA levels by steroids. During the first 24 to 48 h after plating, mononucleated cells aggregated, forming colonies. After 60 h in culture, cell diameters were increased and nuclei appeared centrally distributed within large cells, consistent with syncytiotrophoblast formation. During these striking morphological changes in culture the expression and activity levels of 3 beta-HSD type 1 and P450scc increased significantly as isolated cytotrophoblasts progressed to a differentiated state, with P450scc and 3 beta-HSD type 1 mRNAs activities being more abundant in cells cultured for 48 to 72 h. In the same culture, however, the amount of 3 beta-HSD protein decreased during the first 12 to 24 h by 50% compared with freshly isolated trophoblasts but remained at these levels throughout the culture period. The specific activity of the 3 beta-HSD as determined with pregnenolone or dehydroepiandrosterone was similar but increased with time as syncytiotrophoblast was formed in vitro. These observations provide additional evidence that the expression of these two progesterone-synthesizing enzymes is coincident and that they reach their maximum steady-state mRNA levels at a time when syncytium formation occurs in vitro. Incubation of trophoblast cells with progesterone or estradiol increased the abundance of P450scc and 3 beta-HSD type 1 mRNAs but had no significant effect on the amount of 3 beta-HSD protein. These observations of the regulation of 3 beta-HSD type 1 mRNA levels by steroids suggest a complex relationship of the mechanisms regulating transcription/mRNA processing and transduction of the 3 beta-HSD type 1 gene.
culture|culture|835|841|835|841|culture|

10|9379493.ab.2|M2
The main goal of the present study was to determine whether or not oligodendrocytes in culture constitutively express the different betaAPP isoforms.
culture|culture|84|116|87|93|in culture constitutively express|
PMID- 9379493
TI  - Oligodendrocytes express different isoforms of beta-amyloid precursor protein in chemically defined cell culture conditions: in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical detection.  
AB  - The expression of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) by astrocytes is well documented; however, data concerning oligodendrocytes remain controversial. The main goal of the present study was to determine whether or not oligodendrocytes in culture constitutively express the different betaAPP isoforms. Oligodendrocytes were cultured in a chemically defined medium that avoids putative effects of unknown serum factors on oligodendrocyte development. We have employed immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization with antibodies and synthetic oligonucleotides recognizing, respectively, specific protein epitopes and mRNA transcripts of rat betaAPP isoforms. Oligodendrocytes, in both mixed primary cultures in the presence of serum or in secondary cultures in defined medium, were clearly labeled by antibodies directed to different betaAPP sequences. Antibodies against the serine protease inhibitor domain of betaAPP, also strongly labelled oligodendrocytes. Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were combined to determine precisely the expression of different isoforms of betaAPP. In situ hybridization revealed the presence in oligodendrocytes of mRNA transcripts coding not only for betaAPP695 but also for betaAPP770 and betaAPP751. This indicates that betaAPP immunoreactivity found in oligodendrocytes corresponds to constitutive expression of betaAPP. Oligodendrocyte cultured in chemically defined medium are able to express not only betaAPP695 but also betaAPP770, betaAPP751 isoforms containing the Kunitz protease inhibitor domain. Although the role of betaAPP in the pathological processes of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unknown, possible disturbances of betaAPP processing and/or synthesis in oligodendrocytes may account for some myelin disorders observed in AD and other senile dementias.
culture|culture|451|483|454|460|in culture constitutively express|

11|9366515.ti.1|M2
Inhibition of LPS-induced TNF-alpha production by calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in cultured mouse peritoneal macrophages.
culture|cultured|89|129|92|99|in cultured mouse peritoneal macrophages.|
PMID- 9366515
TI  - Inhibition of LPS-induced TNF-alpha production by calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in cultured mouse peritoneal macrophages.  
AB  - The purpose of this study was to examine whether rCGRP has effects on TNF-alpha produced by mouse resident peritoneal macrophages. Macrophages were obtained from the peritoneal exudate of male Balb/c mouse. The cells were plated on culture dishes at a density of 2.5x10(5) cells per well and allowed to adhere for 2 hr. Pretreatment with rCGRP (10 nM-1 microM) for 24 hr, the macrophages were cultured with LPS 1 microg/ml for another 24 h. The medium was harvested for measuring TNF-alpha by ELISA kits. The results showed that rCGRP had no direct effects on TNF-alpha production, but it inhibited LPS-induced TNF-alpha production in a concentration-dependent manner. When rCGRP was at a concentration of 1 microM, the LPS-induced TNF-alpha production was inhibited by 39%. The effect of rCGRP was reversed by hCGRP(8-37) (10 microM), an antagonist of CGRP1 receptor. The LPS-induced TNF-alpha production from macrophages was also inhibited by forskolin 3 microM, an activator of adenylate cyclase. Furthermore, pretreatment with H-89 1 microM or Rp-cAMPS 100 microM, the inhibitors of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, the effect of rCGRP was abolished. These data suggest that the LPS-induced TNF-alpha production is inhibited by rCGRP via activation of cAMP responses in mouse resident peritoneal macrophages.
culture|cultured|110|150|113|120|in cultured mouse peritoneal macrophages.|

12|9379876.ti.1|M1
[Twins in cultural and psychic life. African examples].
culture|cultural|7|17|10|17|in cultural|
PMID- 9379876
TI  - [Twins in cultural and psychic life. African examples]  
AB  - In Africa, twin births were and are still considered to be events of extraordinary importance. Traditional beliefs give to twins a special position as sacred monsters and devote to them a variety of ritual celebrations. The different versions of the dogon myth of the creation of the world tell the symbolic events that led to separation of Heaven and Earth, of gods and first men on earth, of female and men of religious leaders and other inhabitants. The dual faces of androgynous twins provide a paradigm for a long process of differentiation culminating in definitive separation when turned into animals occupying opposing territories. Ibeji statuettes are a central element in a twin-related cult practiced by the Yoruba people. The birth or death of twins is considered as a potential threat for future children. For this reason, the Yorubas treat these statuettes as if they were alive. The anxiety neurosis of Josephine, a modern African woman, expressed itself through a recurrent dream. Psychotherapy allowed her to understand the meaning of these dream images.
culture|cultural|28|38|31|38|in cultural|

13|9300412.ab.12|M2
Similar to axotomy, c-Jun increased and ATF-2 decreased in cultured adult dorsal root ganglion neurons following ultraviolet irradiation.
culture|cultured|59|66|59|66|cultured|
PMID- 9300412
TI  - Expression of activating transcription factor-2, serum response factor and cAMP/Ca response element binding protein in the adult rat brain following generalized seizures, nerve fibre lesion and ultraviolet irradiation.  
AB  - The expression of the constitutive transcription factors activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2), serum response factor (SRF) and cAMP/Ca response element binding factor (CREB), and the phosphorylation of SRF and CREB were studied in the untreated adult rat nervous system and following seizure activities and neurodegenerative stimuli. In the untreated rat, intense nuclear SRF immunoreactivity was present in the vast majority of neurons in the forebrain, cortex, striatum, amygdala and hippocampus, and in some scattered neurons in the medulla and spinal cord. In contrast, SRF immunoreactivity was absent in the midline areas of the forebrain, e.g., the globus pallidum and septum, and in the hypothalamus, thalamus, mesencephalon and motoneurons. Nuclear ATF-2 was expressed at high levels in apparently all neurons, but not glial cells, throughout the neuraxis except for those neuronal populations which exhibit a high basal level of c-Jun, i.e. dentate gyrus and the motoneurons of cranial and somatosensory neurons. CREB immunoreactivity was present at a rather uniform intensity in all neuronal and glial cells throughout the neuraxis. Two hours, but not 5 h or 24 h, following systemic application of kainic acid, an increase in SRF was detectable by western blot analysis in hippocampal and cortical homogenates whereas the expression of ATF-2 and CREB did not change. Phosphorylation of CREB at serine 133 and of SRF at serine 103 were studied with specific antisera. In untreated rats, intense phosphoCREB and phosphoSRF immunoreactivities labelled many glial cells and/or neurons with the highest levels in the dentate gyrus, the entorhinal cortex and the retrosplenial cortex. Following kainate-induced seizures, phosphoSRF-IR but not phosphoCREB-IR transiently increased between 0.5 h and 2 h. Following transection of peripheral or central nerve fibres such as optic nerve, medial forebrain bundle, vagal and facial nerve fibres, ATF-2 rapidly decreased in the axotomized neurons during that period when c-Jun was rapidly expressed. SRF remained unchanged and CREB disappeared in some axotomized subpopulations. Similar to axotomy, c-Jun increased and ATF-2 decreased in cultured adult dorsal root ganglion neurons following ultraviolet irradiation. The distribution of SRF and ATF-2 suggests that their putative target genes c-fos, junB, krox-24 and c-jun can be independently regulated from SRF and ATF-2. The suppression of ATF-2 and the expression of c-Jun following axotomy and ultraviolet irradiation might be part of a novel neuronal stress response in the brain that strongly resembles the stress response characterized in non-neuronal cells.
culture|cultured|2439|2446|2439|2446|cultured|

14|9315102.ab.1|M2
The major differentiation products of maturing keratinocytes contain AP-1 regulatory motifs, and AP-1 DNA binding activity increases in cultured keratinocytes induced to differentiate by calcium.
culture|cultured|133|157|136|143|in cultured keratinocytes|
PMID- 9315102
TI  - Opposing activities of c-Fos and Fra-2 on AP-1 regulated transcriptional activity in mouse keratinocytes induced to differentiate by calcium and phorbol esters.  
AB  - The major differentiation products of maturing keratinocytes contain AP-1 regulatory motifs, and AP-1 DNA binding activity increases in cultured keratinocytes induced to differentiate by calcium. Here, we have analysed AP-1 transcriptional activity in mouse keratinocytes treated with calcium and 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA), two agents that induce terminal differentiation of keratinocytes with different phenotypic consequences. Reporter constructs representing multimers of AP-1 sequences found in keratinocyte marker genes demonstrated that the calcium-induced AP-1 DNA binding activity does not correlate with transcriptional activation. Moreover, expression from active subunits of the profilaggrin and spr 1 promoters increased in calcium-treated keratinocytes when the AP-1 sites were disrupted, indicating that AP-1 may negatively regulate certain promoters in these cells. In contrast, AP-1 reporter activity was increased in keratinocytes treated with TPA. This induction was dependent upon the expression of c-Fos since AP-1 transcriptional activity was not increased in TPA-treated keratinocytes derived from c-fos null mice. Analysis of AP-1 protein expression in calcium- and TPA-treated keratinocytes demonstrated that only TPA increased the expression of c-Jun, while Jun B and Jun D were induced by both of these agents. c-Fos was expressed only in TPA treated keratinocytes, Fra-2 was expressed only in calcium-treated cells, and Fra-1 was expressed in both. Exogenous expression of Fra-2 repressed AP-1 transcriptional activity in TPA-treated keratinocytes, while c-Fos expression activated the AP-1 sequence in calcium-treated keratinocytes. These data indicate that Fra-2 and c-Fos play opposing roles in regulating AP-1 activity in keratinocytes and that multiple inducer-dependent regulatory pathways may exist for the expression of keratinocyte differentiation markers.
culture|cultured|323|347|326|333|in cultured keratinocytes|

15|9326770.ab.7|M2
F19 sutures without dura mater exhibited significant increases in enzyme activities during days 7 to 21 of culture, whereas those without dura mater did not.
culture|culture|104|114|107|113|of culture,|
PMID- 9326770
TI  - Osteoblastic and osteoclastic activation in coronal sutures undergoing fusion ex vivo.  
AB  - Numerous studies have demonstrated the importance of dura mater in the normal development and regeneration of the cranium and its sutures. The purpose of this study was to analyze the effect of dura mater on the metabolism of bone during the process of premature suture fusion. Previously, coronal sutures of fetal rats have been shown to fuse in serum-free culture after removal of their dura mater, whereas sutures of neonatal rats resist fusion even without their dura mater present. Sutures from these two distinct developmental stages were evaluated by assaying alkaline phosphatase and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), marker enzymes of bone synthesis and catabolism, respectively. Coronal sutures with adjacent calvaria were dissected from fetal day 19.5 (F19) rats (n = 142) and neonatal day 1 (N1) rats (n = 42) and randomly divided into two groups each: F19 sutures with dura mater intact; F19 sutures with dura mater removed; N1 sutures with dura mater intact; and N1 sutures with dura mater removed. Calvaria were grown in serum-free medium for up to 21 days, and enzyme activities in suture regions were assayed by microanalytical techniques at different time intervals of culture. F19 sutures without dura mater exhibited significant increases in enzyme activities during days 7 to 21 of culture, whereas those without dura mater did not. N1 sutures with or without dura mater exhibited no significant changes in enzyme activities during the 14-day period of culture. The process of F19 suture fusion, occurring in the absence of dura mater, coincided with the increased activities of both alkaline phosphatase and TRAP. These cellular, enzymatic changes may have implications for the cellular events comprising craniosynostosis in vivo.
culture|culture|1426|1436|1429|1435|of culture,|

16|9243704.ab.3|M2
Freshly isolated tenocytes and cultured fibroblasts possessed activities of the mitochondrial enzyme citrate synthase similar to those of other mammalian cells, with well defined oxidative metabolism.
culture|cultured|31|50|31|38|cultured fibroblasts|
PMID- 9243704
TI  - Oxidative energy metabolism in equine tendon cells.  
AB  - Hypoxia has been suggested as a possible cause of tissue degeneration and subsequent rupture in equine tendons. To determine whether low oxygen tension is likely to be detrimental to tendon cell function, experiments were designed to investigate oxidative energy metabolism in freshly isolated and cultured equine tendon cells. Freshly isolated tenocytes and cultured fibroblasts possessed activities of the mitochondrial enzyme citrate synthase similar to those of other mammalian cells, with well defined oxidative metabolism. D-[6(-14)C]-glucose oxidation was measurable in both freshly isolated and explant-derived cells. The content of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in cultured cells was decreased by incubation with a mitochondrial respiratory uncoupler. These data demonstrate that tendon cells are capable of oxidative energy metabolism and rely upon it to maintain cellular ATP levels. Hypoxia must therefore be considered as a possible factor leading to tendon degeneration and subsequent injury.
culture|cultured|440|459|440|447|cultured fibroblasts|

17|9272194.ti.1|M1
A cross-cultural breakdown of Swedish suicide.
culture|cultural|0|25|8|15|A cross-cultural breakdown|
PMID- 9272194
TI  -  A cross-cultural breakdown of Swedish suicide.  
AB  - In this cross-cultural, nation-wide study including all immigrant groups in Sweden, over 10,000 suicides and undetermined cases occurring during the period 1987-1991 were analysed. Diagnoses of the underlying causes of death were classified according to ICD-9, all of the alternatives E950-E959 and E980-E989 being selected. Definite and overall suicide rates were estimated for each immigrant group represented. We found an overrepresentation of immigrants in the Swedish suicide statistics nation-wide. A total of 15 countries (60% of the immigrant population) manifested more observed than expected suicides and undetermined cases. This overrepresentation was statistically significant among immigrants from Russia, Finland, Germany, Denmark and Norway (the immigrant population of these countries represents nearly 50% of the total population of immigrants in Sweden). Other nationalities with an increased suicide incidence were from Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Korea, The Netherlands, France, Spain and Uruguay. The risk of an immigrant dying of a cause related to suicide was found to be 1.5 times higher than that for a native Swede. Furthermore, the increased suicide rates observed among the immigrant groups in Sweden were found to be higher than in the respective countries of origin for 90% of the nationalities investigated, including those characterized by a relatively high refugee flow to Sweden, the rank order being generally the same both in the countries of origin and in Sweden. The immigrant groups with the highest suicide rates in our study were from Russia, Finland and Hungary. Suggestions are made concerning the possible involvement of underlying cultural, anthropological and genetic factors in this phenomenon.
culture|cultural|22|47|30|37|A cross-cultural breakdown|

18|9327738.ab.1|M2
Mast cells develop when spleen cells of mice are cultured in the medium containing interleukin (IL)-3.
culture|cultured|49|56|49|56|cultured|
PMID- 9327738
TI  - Involvement of transcription factor encoded by the mouse mi locus (MITF) in apoptosis of cultured mast cells induced by removal of interleukin-3.  
AB  - Mast cells develop when spleen cells of mice are cultured in the medium containing interleukin (IL)-3. Cultured mast cells (CMCs) show apoptosis when they are incubated in the medium without IL-3. We obtained CMCs from tg/tg mice that did not express the transcription factor encoded by the mi gene (MITF) due to the integration of a transgene at its 5' flanking region. MITF is a member of the basic-helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper (bHLH-Zip) protein family of transcription factors. We investigated the effect of MITF on the apoptosis of CMCs after removal of IL-3. When cDNA encoding normal MITF ((+)-MITF) was introduced into tg/tg CMCs with the retroviral vector, the apoptosis of tg/tg CMCs was significantly accelerated. The mutant mi allele represents a deletion of an arginine at the basic domain of MITF. The apoptosis of tg/tg CMCs was not accelerated by the introduction of cDNA encoding mi-MITF. The overexpression of (+)-MITF was not prerequisite to the acceleration of the apoptosis, as the apoptotic process proceeded faster in +/+ CMCs than in mi/mi CMCs. The Ba/F3 lymphoid cell line is also dependent on IL-3, and Ba/F3 cells show apoptosis after removal of IL-3. The c-myc gene encodes another transcription factor of the bHLH-Zip family, and the overexpression of the c-myc gene accelerated the apoptosis of Ba/F3 cells. However, the overexpression of (+)-MITF did not accelerate the apoptosis of Ba/F3 cells. The (+)-MITF appeared to play some roles for the acceleration of the apoptosis specifically in the mast cell lineage.
culture|cultured|224|231|224|231|cultured|

19|9354657.ab.10|M2
To determine if FL enhanced or depleted the number of precommitted cells in expansion culture, CD34+ CD38dim and HLA-DR+ fractions were incubated in liquid culture and analyzed by flow cytometry.
culture|culture|73|93|86|92|in expansion culture,|
PMID- 9354657
TI  - Flt3 ligand enhances the yield of primitive cells after Ex vivo cultivation of CD34+ CD38dim cells and CD34+ CD38dim CD33dim HLA-DR+ cells.  
AB  - Flt3 ligand (FL) has been proposed as a possible modulator of early hematopoietic cell growth. The purpose of this study was to analyze the impact of FL on ex vivo expansion of hematopoietic cells obtained from adult donors. We sought to precisely identify hematopoietic populations responsive to FL and to quantitate the ability of FL to enhance the survival and/or proliferation of early hematopoietic precursors in a stroma-free culture system. Towards that end, four CD34+ subsets were isolated and their response to FL was characterized. In methylcellulose, FL significantly increased colony formation by CD34+ CD38dim cells but not CD34+ CD38+ cells. In suspension culture, the enhancement of cell expansion by FL was 10 times greater with the CD34+ CD38dim fraction than the CD34+ CD38+ fraction. FL stimulated the generation of colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) from the CD34+CD38dim fraction by 14.5- +/- 5.6-fold. To determine if CD34+ CD38dim cells responded uniformly to FL, the population was subdivided into a CD34+ CD38dim CD33dim HLA-DR+ (HLA-DR+) fraction and a CD34+ CD38dim CD33(dim) HLA-DRdim (HLA-DRdim) fraction. FL was far more effective at stimulating cell and progenitor growth from the HLA-DR+ fraction. To determine if FL enhanced or depleted the number of precommitted cells in expansion culture, CD34+ CD38dim and HLA-DR+ fractions were incubated in liquid culture and analyzed by flow cytometry. Inclusion of FL enhanced the absolute number of primitive CD34+ CD33dim cells and CD34+ HLA-DRdim cells after 5 to 12 days of cultivation. To confirm immunophenotypic data, the effect of FL on long-term culture-initiating cells (LTCIC) was determined. After 2 weeks of incubation of CD34+ CD38dim or HLA-DR+ cultures, LTCIC recoveries were significantly higher with FL in 5 of 6 trials (P < . 05). For HLA-DR+ cells, LTCIC recoveries averaged 214% +/- 87% of input with FL and 24% +/- 16% without FL. In contrast, HLA-DRdim LTCIC could not be maintained in stroma-free culture. We conclude that less than 10% of CD34+ cells respond vigorously to FL and that those cells are contained within the HLA-DR+ fraction. FL stimulates the expansion of total cells, CD34+ cells, and CFU-GM and enhances the pool of early CD34+ CD33(dim) cells, CD34+ HLA-DRdim cells, and LTCIC. These data indicate that it is possible to expand hematopoietic progenitors from adult donors without losing precursors from the precommitted cell pool.
culture|culture|1490|1510|1503|1509|in expansion culture,|

20|9368342.ab.3|M2
Cell purification and gene marking studies have shown that the repopulating cells, termed severe-combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mouse-repopulating cells (SRC), are primitive and distinct from most of the progenitors that are detected using short and long-term in vitro culture assays.
culture|culture|252|285|271|277|long-term in vitro culture assays.|
PMID- 9368342
TI  - Assay of human stem cells by repopulation of NOD/SCID mice.  
AB  - The only conclusive method to assay stem cells is to follow their ability to repopulate conditioned recipients, making it difficult to study human stem cells. The development of systems to transplant human hematopoietic cells into immune-deficient mice lays the foundation for such an experimental repopulation assay for primitive human cells. Cell purification and gene marking studies have shown that the repopulating cells, termed severe-combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mouse-repopulating cells (SRC), are primitive and distinct from most of the progenitors that are detected using short and long-term in vitro culture assays. The SRC are exclusively CD34+CD38- and poorly infected with retrovirus vectors. These gene marking data are reminiscent of the human clinical trials establishing that the SRC assay is a good surrogate to develop improved transduction methods. Limiting dilution analysis has been used to establish a quantitative assay for SRC that can be used to precisely determine the effect of various cytokine cocktails on the proliferation and differentiation of SRC during in vitro culture.
culture|culture|685|718|704|710|long-term in vitro culture assays.|

21|9392501.ab.1|M2
In our previous study (Diabetes 44:520-526, 1995), endothelial cells cultured in high glucose condition showed impairment of an oxidant-induced activation of the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and a reduced supply of NADPH to the glutathione redox cycle.
culture|cultured|69|76|69|76|cultured|
PMID- 9392501
TI  - Pyruvate improves deleterious effects of high glucose on activation of pentose phosphate pathway and glutathione redox cycle in endothelial cells.  
AB  - In our previous study (Diabetes 44:520-526, 1995), endothelial cells cultured in high glucose condition showed impairment of an oxidant-induced activation of the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and a reduced supply of NADPH to the glutathione redox cycle. To gain insight into the mechanisms of this impairment, the protective effect of pyruvate was studied in human umbilical vein endothelial cells cultured in either 5.5 mmol/l glucose (normal glucose [NG] condition) or 33 mmol/l glucose (high glucose [HG] condition). Through pretreatment of cells with 0.2 mmol/l pyruvate for 5-7 days in the HG condition, glucose oxidation through the PPP and total cellular NADPH content in the presence of 0.2 mmol/l H2O2 were increased by 54 (P < 0.05) and 34%, respectively, and glutathione-dependent degradation of H2O2 in HG cells was enhanced by 41% (P < 0.01), when compared with those cells to which pyruvate was not added. The addition of pyruvate significantly reduced the fructose 1,6-bisphosphate (FDP) content and free cytoplasmic NADH/NAD ratio, estimated by increased pyruvate/lactate ratio in NG and HG cells exposed to H2O2. Furthermore, the addition of pyruvate also showed a 46% reduction (P < 0.01) of endothelial cell damage induced by H2O2 in HG cells. These results indicate that abnormalities in PPP activation and glutathione redox cycle activity induced by H2O2 in HG cells are compensated, and that the accentuated reductive stress is improved by an addition of pyruvate. These pyruvate effects are associated with protection against an oxidant-induced endothelial cell injury in the high glucose condition.
culture|cultured|245|252|245|252|cultured|

22|9389952.ab.7|M2
Pure culture of facultative Gram negative rods was more common in uncircumcised males (17% v 4% in circumcised males, p = 0.01).
culture|culture|0|11|5|11|Pure culture|
PMID- 9389952
TI  - Comparative periurethral bacteriology of uncircumcised and circumcised males.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: It has been established that lack of circumcision increases the risk of urinary tract infection in infants. During the first six months, the presence of foreskin is associated with a greater quantity and a higher concentration of uropathogens in the periurethral area. Very little is known about this association in older males. OBJECTIVE: To compare the periurethral bacteriology of uncircumcised healthy males of more than one year of age. METHODS: The periurethral area of 125 uncircumcised and 46 circumcised healthy males (mean age, 26.5 and 28.3 years, respectively) was swabbed and cultured for facultative and anaerobic bacteria, genital mycoplasmas and Chlamydia trachomatis. RESULTS: Facultative Gram positive cocci predominated in both groups (62% and 80%, respectively).  Pure culture of facultative Gram negative rods was more common in uncircumcised males (17% v 4% in circumcised males, p = 0.01). Streptococci, strict anaerobes and genital mycoplasmas were found almost exclusively in uncircumcised males of more than 15 years of age. No case of C trachomatis was identified. CONCLUSIONS: The higher prevalence of potential uropathogens in the subpreputial space is in accordance with a previous finding of increased risk of urinary tract infection in uncircumcised young men. Our results also support the role of the prepuce as a reservoir for sexually transmitted organisms.
culture|culture|903|914|908|914|Pure culture|

23|9363481.ti.1|M2
Continuous culture of Plasmodium falciparum: its impact on malaria research.
culture|culture|0|17|11|17|Continuous culture|
PMID- 9363481
TI  -  Continuous culture of Plasmodium falciparum: its impact on malaria research.  
AB  - The methods developed by us in 1976 for the continuous culture of the erythrocytic stages of Plasmodium falciparum make this organism available to a large variety of scientists. As a result, much has been learned about P. falciparum during the past 20 years. Here we attempt to emphasize recent developments in the diverse aspects for which the culture method has been particularly useful: chemotherapy; drug resistance; vaccine development; pathogenesis; export of proteins into the host cell; cell biology, the mitochondrion and the plastid; innate resistance involving mutant human erythrocytes; gametocytogenesis; genetics, transfection; molecular biology; biochemistry; extracellular cultivation.
culture|culture|22|39|33|39|Continuous culture|

24|9369583.ti.1|M1
Cultural assessment in home healthcare.
culture|cultural|0|18|0|7|Cultural assessment|
PMID- 9369583
TI  -  Cultural assessment in home healthcare.  
AB  - As the nurse becomes adept at performing cultural assessments and culturally competent care, it will become clear that "although it is critical to conduct a cultural assessment with culturally and ethnically diverse groups, it is also important to realize that every client needs a cultural assessment. Every client has values, beliefs, and practices that must be considered when a clinician renders healthcare services. Therefore, cultural assessments are not limited to specific ethnic groups, but rather should be conducted on each individual" (Campinha-Bacote, 1995, p.148). Nurses who have been identified as good transcultural nurses have been found to be empathetic, caring, open, and flexible. They have a positive attitude toward cultural differences and have a genuine interest in learning from the client about the client's culture (Emerson, 1995). Talabere (1996) states that openness, appreciation of another's perspective, holistic communication, genuine interest, and a nonjudgmental attitude are central to cultural sensitivity. When a culturally sensitive nurse develops mutually agreeable goals with a patient from another culture, a kind of cultural synergy occurs, resulting in care that is "meaningful, satisfying and beneficial to clients" (Leininger, 1988, p.155).
culture|cultural|22|40|22|29|Cultural assessment|

25|9368050.ab.6|M2
Cultured mouse fibroblasts in which the Beige protein was overexpressed had smaller than normal lysosomes that were more peripherally distributed than in control cells.
culture|cultured|0|25|0|7|Cultured mouse fibroblasts|
PMID- 9368050
TI  - The Beige/Chediak-Higashi syndrome gene encodes a widely expressed cytosolic protein.  
AB  - The human autosomal recessive disorder Chediak-Higashi syndrome and its murine homologue beige are associated with the formation of giant lysosomes that cluster near the perinuclear region of cells. We prepared a polyclonal antiserum against a glutathione S-transferase-Beige fusion protein and demonstrated by Western analysis that the beige gene encodes a protein of 400 kDa that is expressed in cultured murine fibroblasts as well as most mouse tissues. The protein was not detected in either cultured fibroblasts or mouse tissues from two different beige mutants. Cultured fibroblasts transformed with multiple copies of yeast artificial chromosomes that contain the full-length beige gene showed much higher levels of Beige protein than either wild type fibroblasts or mouse tissues. Subcellular fractionation experiments demonstrated that the Beige protein was cytosolic and, under the conditions of isolation, had no measurable membrane association.  Cultured mouse fibroblasts in which the Beige protein was overexpressed had smaller than normal lysosomes that were more peripherally distributed than in control cells. These findings, coupled with earlier published results, suggest that the Beige protein regulates lysosomal fission.
culture|cultured|1073|1098|1073|1080|Cultured mouse fibroblasts|

26|9363730.ab.2|M2
We tested this hypothesis using a modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and an in-vitro placental culture system.
culture|culture|89|125|111|117|an in-vitro placental culture system.|
PMID- 9363730
TI  - Heparin and low-dose aspirin restore placental human chorionic gonadotrophin secretion abolished by antiphospholipid antibody-containing sera.  
AB  - This study was conducted to determine whether drugs used for conventional treatments of pregnant women with antiphosholipid syndrome might be able to restore the gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-induced secretion of placental human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) in vitro. We tested this hypothesis using a modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and an in-vitro placental culture system. Pharmacological dose of low molecular weight heparin (20 IU/ml) significantly (P < 0.02) reduced the antiphospholipid antibody (aPL) binding in the ELISA and was able to restore GnRH-induced HCG secretion (P < 0.05) in presence of aPL-containing sera. Low-dose aspirin (0.03 M) did not modify aPL binding in the ELISA, but partially restored HCG secretion (P < 0.05). These observations may help to explain the role of these treatments in antiphospholipid syndrome.
culture|culture|539|575|561|567|an in-vitro placental culture system.|

27|9348340.ti.1|M2
DNA replication and postreplication mismatch repair in cell-free extracts from cultured human neuroblastoma and fibroblast cells.
culture|cultured|74|106|79|86|from cultured human neuroblastoma|
PMID- 9348340
TI  - DNA replication and postreplication mismatch repair in cell-free extracts from cultured human neuroblastoma and fibroblast cells.  
AB  - DNA synthesis and postreplication mismatch repair were measured in vitro using cell-free extracts from cultured human SY5Y neuroblastoma and WI38 fibroblast cells in different growth states. All extracts, including differentiated SY5Y and quiescent WI38 fibroblasts, catalyzed SV40 origin-dependent DNA synthesis, totally dependent on SV40 T-antigen. Thus, although differentiated neuroblastoma and quiescent fibroblasts cells were essentially nondividing, their extracts were competent for DNA replication using DNA polymerases delta, alpha, and possibly epsilon, with proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Nonreplicative DNA synthesis and lesion bypass by either alpha- or beta-polymerases were detected independently in extracts using primed or gapped single-stranded DNA templates. Long-patch postreplication mismatch repair was measured for the first time in neuroblastoma cell-free extracts. Extracts from subconfluent and high-density SY5Y cells catalyzed postreplication mismatch repair with efficiencies comparable to those of HeLa cell extracts. No significant differences were observed in repair between SY5Y differentiated and undifferentiated cell extracts. Mismatch repair efficiencies were threefold lower in extracts from subconfluent WI38 cells, and repair in WI38 quiescent cells was fourfold less than in subconfluent cells, suggesting that mismatch repair may be regulated. The spectrum of mismatch repair in SY5Y extracts closely resembled the mismatch removal specificities of HeLa extracts: T . G and G . G mismatches were repaired most efficiently; C . A, A . A, A . G and a five-base loop were repaired with intermediate efficiency; repair of G . A, C . C, and T . T mismatches was extremely inefficient.
culture|cultured|95|127|100|107|from cultured human neuroblastoma|

28|9368181.ab.4|M2
The MPCs were isolated and culture-expanded as adherent cells in vitro and subsequently tested for the capacity to differentiate into mesenchymal phenotypes in vivo using calcium hydroxyapatite porous ceramic cubes implanted s.c. in athymic mice.
culture|culture|27|34|27|33|culture-|
PMID- 9368181
TI  - Human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal (stromal) progenitor cells (MPCs) cannot be recovered from peripheral blood progenitor cell collections.  
AB  - The purpose of this study was to compare the ability to collect human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal (stromal) progenitor cells (MPC) from bone marrow versus peripheral blood hematopoietic progenitor cell (PBPC) collections using in vitro and in vivo assays. Ten milliliter samples of PBPC collections mobilized from 11 patients undergoing autotransplants using chemotherapy followed by G-CSF 5-10 micrograms/kg were evaluated using in vitro and in vivo assays for hematopoietic progenitors and MPCs. Additionally, 10 ml samples of unstimulated bone marrow aspirates as well as PBPC collected after mobilization using G-CSF 10 micrograms/kg obtained from 3 normal, histocompatible allogeneic donors were analyzed for hematopoietic progenitors and MPCs. The MPCs were isolated and culture-expanded as adherent cells in vitro and subsequently tested for the capacity to differentiate into mesenchymal phenotypes in vivo using calcium hydroxyapatite porous ceramic cubes implanted s.c. in athymic mice. Demineralized sections of these cubes were analyzed histologically for the appearance of bone and cartilage. Seven autotransplant subjects with cancer received G-CSF after chemotherapy administration, whereas 4 cancer patients and all 3 normal donors received G-CSF alone as the mobilizing regimen. For the autologous PBPC collections and the normal marrow aspirations, median hematopoietic progenitor content was in the normal range for our institution. MPCs were detected in in vitro cultures and as bone-positive ceramic cubes in samples of all 3 allogeneic donor bone marrows but in none of the 14 autologous and 6 allogeneic PBPC collections. In conclusion, MPCs could not be recovered in PBPC collections obtained from either normal donors or patients who underwent PBPC collections after mobilization therapy but could be obtained routinely from bone marrow samples. Although the role of transplanted MPCs is an area of clinical investigation, this study points out a fundamental differences in the population of cells transplanted after collection from bone marrow versus peripheral blood.
culture|culture|953|960|953|959|culture-|

29|9385377.ab.4|M2
To characterize PCCA gene mutations responsible for PCC deficiency, we analyzed RT-PCR products obtained from cultured fibroblasts from Spanish PCC-alpha deficient patients.
culture|cultured|105|129|110|117|from cultured fibroblasts|
PMID- 9385377
TI  - Three novel splice mutations in the PCCA gene causing identical exon skipping in propionic acidemia patients.  
AB  - Propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) is a mitochondrial, biotin-dependent enzyme involved in the catabolism of branched chain amino acids, odd chain fatty acids, and other metabolites. PCC consists of non-identical subunits, alpha and beta, encoded by the PCCA and PCCB genes, respectively. Inherited deficiency of PCC due to mutations in either the PCCA or the PCCB gene results in propionic acidemia (PA), a clinically heterogeneous disorder with a severe, often lethal, neonatal form, and a mild, later onset form. To characterize PCCA gene mutations responsible for PCC deficiency, we analyzed RT-PCR products obtained from cultured fibroblasts from Spanish PCC-alpha deficient patients. In three patients, smaller than normal PCR products were observed, and sequence analysis revealed the deletion of a 54-bp exon in the cDNA. Sequencing of genomic DNA from these three patients led to the identification of three novel mutations in the PCCA gene, two short deletions and one small insertion, adjacent to short direct repeats, and all of them affecting the consensus splice sites of the skipped exon. These mutations, 1771IVS-2del9, 1824IVS+3del4, and 1824IVS+3insCT, are the cause of the aberrant splicing of the PCCA pre-mRNA and result in an in-frame deletion of 54 nucleotides in the cDNA, probably leading to an unstable protein structure which is responsible for the lack of activity leading to PCC deficiency in these patients.
culture|cultured|757|781|762|769|from cultured fibroblasts|

30|9330560.ab.1|M1
It is well-known that Takeo Doi tried to describe Japanese culture using the Japanese term "Amae".
culture|culture|50|65|59|65|Japanese culture|
PMID- 9330560
TI  - [Considerations on the fundamental structure and characteristics of the "Amae" phenomenon--clarification of the "Amae-theory (Takeo Doi)"]  
AB  - It is well-known that Takeo Doi tried to describe Japanese culture using the Japanese term "Amae". However, with many Japanese students of psychotherapy pointing out that his use of the term was arbitrary, his Amae-theory fell into confusion. Actually, with the single word Amae, he explained many heterogeneous psychological phenomena including pathological dependency as well as maternal separation. In this paper, I use my own clinical observations to clarify the Amae-phenomenon and define it as follows: The "Aame" the Japanese usually experience in daily life differs from both pathological dependency (which M. Balint described as "ocnophilia"), and an affinity for friendly expanses in the therapeutic depressive position (described by M. Balint as "philobatism", by me as "sumu-akirameru"; c.f. Keiichi Nagayama: Considerations on the Guilt Feeling towards Mother and Maternal Separation using the Japanese Keywords "Sumu-Akirameru" and "Sumanai", Psychiatria et Neurologica Japonica, 96: 83-108, 1994). In psychotherapy, Japanese patients only become able to form Amae connections with others after experiencing the two opposites (ocnophilia and philobatism) mentioned above. Although Amae is phenomenologically different from those extremes, it consists of two elements carrying some attributes from those extremes. One element consists of interpenetrating and mutually interdependent personal relations in a small familiar group; and the other element is a kind of protective and harmonious space in which the Japanese enjoy "temporary and partial regression in the service of the ego". As these two elements are both present in Amae, where dependence and independence are concerned, Amae toes the midline and has a double meaning. A fundamental principle of interpersonal relationships in Japanese society, Amae calls upon members of a small group to be moderately individualistic. If a member lacks ego flexibility regarding Amae and cannot obey this principle, he cannot adapt to a small familiar group. From the Western standpoint of individuality, Amae and interpenetrating personal relations in Japanese society must be regarded as regressive phenomena, whereas, for the Japanese, Amae is a personal skill necessary for social adaptation. Whereas Sumu-Akirameru (Nagayama) and Philobatism (Balint) are ontological phenomena that tend to avoid external objects, Amae involves the need for relationships and is a somewhat socialized phenomenon in Japan. Although Amae and Sumu-Akirameru are different phenomena, they share several characteristics: 1) both tend towards protective harmonious spaces which have both specialty and boundaries; 2) things arise spontaneously and unintentionally in both phenomena; 3) the Japanese use both to confirm their sense of self; 4) both have the qualities of "corporality" and "living in". Because of these common areas, the Japanese tend to perceive Sumu-Akirameru and Amae as one experience, although they are different, separate phenomena. This tendency leads the Japanese to group behavior patterns, and unconsciously forces them into a double bind between individualization and group behavior patterns. This cultural tendency and phenomenological ambiguity of Amae itself allow the Japanese to easily project many kinds of psychological phenomena onto Amae. It is this projection deeply rooted in Japanese culture that confused the Amae-theory (Doi). Clarification of this cultural tendency not only contributes to the study of Japanese psychotherapy (Morita therapy, Naikan therapy), but also to that of "narcissism" and Preoedipal subjects in psychoanalysis.
culture|culture|218|233|227|233|Japanese culture|

31|9294849.ab.4|M2
However, in cells cultured for 4 days, progesterone production was enhanced by incubation with AngII (38%), and no change was observed in 3 beta-HSD expression.
culture|cultured|18|25|18|25|cultured|
PMID- 9294849
TI  - Regulatory role of angiotensin II on progesterone production by cultured human granulosa cells. Expression of angiotensin II type-2 receptor.  
AB  - The role of angiotensin II (AngII) in ovarian steroidogenesis is not clearly understood. In order to study its action on progesterone synthesis and to determine which receptor subtype is involve, granulosa cells obtained from women undergoing in-vitro fertilization were cultured for 2 or 4 days and then incubated in the presence of AngII (10(-7) M) with or without human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG, 10 IU/ml) for 3 or 18 h. In cells cultured for 2 days, incubation with AngII decreased progesterone secretion by 36%, and inhibited activity of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) by 87% (P < 0.05), although its expression was not significantly reduced. However, in cells cultured for 4 days, progesterone production was enhanced by incubation with AngII (38%), and no change was observed in 3 beta-HSD expression. Both inhibitory and stimulatory effects were dose-dependent. Progesterone secretion was increased (93%) by incubation with HCG of cells cultured for 4, but not for 2 days, and no potentiation was observed with AngII. Treatment with PD123177 completely blocked the action of AngII and decreased the HCG-stimulated secretion of progesterone by 27%. Angiotensin type-2 (AT2) receptor mRNA was expressed in cells cultured for 4 days. In conclusion, AngII showed a regulatory role in in-vitro progesterone production by human granulosa luteinized cells, modulating the activity of 3 beta-HSD. It is likely that these actions may be mediated via membrane receptors, possibly of the AT2 receptor family.
culture|cultured|859|866|859|866|cultured|

32|9422921.ab.5|M2
Of the intraocular samples taken from post-surgical and post-traumatic cases, 10/27 (37%) and 3/5 (60%) were culture positive, respectively.
culture|culture|109|115|109|115|culture|
PMID- 9422921
TI  - Assessment of a standard treatment protocol on visual outcome following presumed bacterial endophthalmitis [see comments]  
AB  - AIMS: The aim of this prospective study was, firstly, to judge the effect of early aggressive treatment with a standardised regimen of high dose broad spectrum intraocular and systemic antibiotics on visual outcome and, secondly, to assess the sensitivity of isolated organisms to the treatment regimen utilised. METHODS: Thirty two consecutive patients presenting with presumed bacterial endophthalmitis were treated and completed follow up. In every case, intraocular sampling was undertaken and treatment with intraocular vancomycin, amikacin, and systemic ciprofloxacin was commenced immediately, followed by systemic steroids 1 day later. RESULTS: In 69% of patients vision improved with 47% achieving a final visual acuity of 6/36 or better and 31% achieving 6/12 or better. Of the intraocular samples taken from post-surgical and post-traumatic cases, 10/27 (37%) and 3/5 (60%) were culture positive, respectively. All the bacteria isolated were sensitive to at least one of the three antibiotics used. CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrated that the combination of vancomycin, amikacin, and ciprofloxacin is adequate as a standard regimen for the treatment of most patients with suspected bacterial endophthalmitis. The prognosis for a good visual outcome, however, remains poor with 15/27 (55%) post-surgical and 2/5 (40%) post-traumatic cases achieving a final acuity of 6/60 or less.
culture|culture|1041|1047|1041|1047|culture|

33|9367795.ab.4|M2
The proband's mutation was demonstrated to arise "de novo" by the absence of the mutant allele restriction enzyme pattern from parental genomic DNA.We analyzed the insoluble extracellular matrix deposited by long-term cultured fibroblasts from our patient and from a previously described unrelated individual who carries an identical substitution.
culture|cultured|218|225|218|225|cultured|
PMID- 9367795
TI  - Phenotypic comparison of an osteogenesis imperfecta type IV proband with a de novo alpha2(I) Gly922 --> Ser substitution in type I collagen and an unrelated patient with an identical mutation.  
AB  - We examined the type I collagen synthesized by cultured dermal fibroblasts from a patient affected with osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) type IV. Both normal and abnormal trimers were produced. The mutant collagen molecules were excessively modified intracellularly, had a melting temperature 4 degrees C lower than the control, were secreted at a reduced rate, and underwent delayed processing to mature alpha chains.Molecular investigations identified a G --> A transition in one COL1A2 allele, resulting in a Gly922 --> Ser substitution in the alpha2(I) chain. The proband's mutation was demonstrated to arise "de novo" by the absence of the mutant allele restriction enzyme pattern from parental genomic DNA.We analyzed the insoluble extracellular matrix deposited by long-term cultured fibroblasts from our patient and from a previously described unrelated individual who carries an identical substitution. In both cases, the mutant chain constituted 10-15% of the total alpha chains deposited.We also present here the first detailed comparison of phenotype between unrelated OI patients with an identical collagen mutation. These two patients are both Caucasian females, ages 8 and 9 years, each diagnosed as type IV OI by the Sillence classification. They have a similar phenotype including moderate skeletal fragility with several femur fractures, dentinogenesis imperfecta, wormian bone, and reduced height and weight. We conclude that this phenotype is related both to the location of this mutation and to the similar extent of matrix incorporation by the mutant chains. Molecular and biochemical studies of unrelated individuals with identical amino acid substitutions in type I collagen resulting in either similar or dissimilar clinical outcomes will make a significant contribution to identifying the factors involved in the modulation of the OI phenotype. Copyright 1997 Academic Press.
culture|cultured|1000|1007|1000|1007|cultured|

34|9352107.ti.1|M2
Modulation of neurite branching by protein phosphorylation in cultured rat hippocampal neurons.
culture|cultured|59|94|62|69|in cultured rat hippocampal neurons.|
PMID- 9352107
TI  - Modulation of neurite branching by protein phosphorylation in cultured rat hippocampal neurons.  
AB  - The control of branching of axons and dendrites is poorly understood. It has been hypothesized that branching may be produced by changes in the cytoskeleton [F.J. Diez-Guerra, J. Avila, MAP2 phosphorylation parallels dendrite arborization in hippocampal neurones in culture, NeuroReport 4 (1993) 412-419; P. Friedrich, A. Aszodi, MAP2: a sensitive cross-linker and adjustable spacer in dendritic architecture, FEBS Lett. 295 (1991) 5-9]. The assembly and stability of microtubules, which are prominent cytoskeletal elements in both axons and dendrites, are regulated by microtubule-associated proteins, including tau (predominantly found in axons) and MAP2 (predominantly found in dendrites). The phosphorylation state of tau and MAP2 modulates their interactions with microtubules. In their low-phosphorylation states, tau and MAP2 bind to microtubules and increase microtubule assembly and/or stability. Increased phosphorylation decreases these effects. Diez-Guerra and Avila [F.J. Diez-Guerra, J. Avila, MAP2 phosphorylation parallels dendrite arborization in hippocampal neurones in culture, NeuroReport 4 (1993) 412-419] found that protein phosphorylation correlates with neurite branching in cultured rat hippocampal neurons, and hypothesized that increased protein phosphorylation stimulates neurite branching. To test this hypothesis, we cultured rat hippocampal neurons in the presence of specific modulators of serine-threonine protein kinases and phosphatases. Inhibitors of several protein kinases, which would be expected to decrease protein phosphorylation, reduced branching. KT5720, an inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, and KN62, an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinases, inhibited branching of both axons and dendrites. Calphostin C and chelerythrine, inhibitors of protein kinase C, inhibited branching of axons but not dendrites. Treatments that would be expected to increase protein phosphorylation, including inhibitors of protein phosphatases (okadaic acid, cyclosporin A and FK506) and stimulators of PKA (SP-cAMPS) or PKC (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate), increased dendrite branching. Only FK506 and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate stimulated axon branching. A subset of these agents was tested to confirm their effects on protein phosphorylation in this preparation. Okadaic acid, FK506 and SP-cAMPS all increased protein phosphorylation; KT5720 and KN62 decreased protein phosphorylation. On Western blots, the position of MAP2c extracted from cultures exposed to okadaic acid was slightly shifted toward higher molecular weight, suggesting greater phosphorylation, while the position of MAP2c from cultures exposed to KT5720 and KN62 was slightly shifted toward lower molecular weight, suggesting less phosphorylation. We conclude that protein phosphorylation modulates both dendrite branching and axon branching, but with differences in sensitivity to phosphorylation and/or dephosphorylation by specific kinases and phosphatases.
culture|cultured|80|115|83|90|in cultured rat hippocampal neurons.|

35|9417836.ab.2|M2
RT-PCR analyses indicated that Schwann cells and fibroblasts in culture produced SMDF/n-ARIA and NDF but not GGF neuregulin messages.
culture|culture|61|70|64|70|in culture|
PMID- 9417836
TI  - Schwann cells express NDF and SMDF/n-ARIA mRNAs, secrete neuregulin, and show constitutive activation of erbB3 receptors: evidence for a neuregulin autocrine loop.  
AB  - Cultured Schwann cells secreted low levels (30 pg/ml/1.5 x 10(6) cells) of a 45-kDa neuregulin protein and showed constitutive activation of a neuregulin receptor, Erb-B3, suggesting the existence of an autocrine loop involving neuregulins in Schwann cells. RT-PCR analyses indicated that Schwann cells and fibroblasts in culture produced SMDF/n-ARIA and NDF but not GGF neuregulin messages. Schwann cell and fibroblast neuregulin messages encoded both beta and alpha domains; Schwann cell transcripts encoded only transmembrane neuregulin forms while fibroblast messages encoded transmembrane and secreted forms. SMDF/n-ARIA and NDF messages were also expressed in early postnatal rat sciatic nerve, suggesting a role for neuregulins in peripheral nerve development. An anti-neuregulin antibody inhibited the mitogenic response of Schwann cells to cultured neurons and to extracts of cultured neurons or embryonic brain, consistent with the accepted paracrine role of neuregulins on Schwann cells. Surprisingly, the same antibody inhibited Schwann cell proliferation stimulated by several unrelated mitogens including bFGF, HGF, and TGF-beta1. These data implicate both paracrine and autocrine pathways involving neuregulin form(s) in Schwann cell mitogenic responses. Copyright 1997 Academic Press.
culture|culture|512|521|515|521|in culture|

36|9421388.ab.8|M2
It is concluded that culture of human islet cell preparations with HGF and 804G matrix stimulates the proliferation of the duct cells but not of the underlying beta-cells.
culture|culture|21|27|21|27|culture|
PMID- 9421388
TI  - Culture of adult human islet preparations with hepatocyte growth factor and 804G matrix is mitogenic for duct cells but not for beta-cells.  
AB  - It has recently been reported that human adult beta-cells proliferate during culture on an extracellular matrix prepared from rat 804G cells and in the presence of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). The present study compares the mitogenic effect of this condition on human beta-cells and on neighboring non-endocrine duct cells. Islet cell-enriched fractions were prepared from adult human organ donors and cultured in suspension or on 804G matrix, with or without HGF. The combination of 804G matrix and HGF increased the number of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-positive (BrdU+) cells within 48 h reaching a maximum after 4 days. In sections, virtually all BrdU+ cells were negative for insulin or glucagon and for preproinsulin mRNA but expressed the ductal cell markers cytokeratin 19 and 7, carbonic anhydrase-II, and carbohydrate antigen 19-9. After 4 days of culture, the cytokeratin 19+ ductal cells exhibited a BrdU-labeling index of 30% (P < 0.01 vs. 2% without HGF and matrix), whereas <0.1% of insulin-positive and <1% of glucagon-positive cells were labeled. Formation of bilayers with ductal cells covering the endocrine cells may cause erroneous interpretation on double positivity in unsectioned tissue. It is concluded that culture of human islet cell preparations with HGF and 804G matrix stimulates the proliferation of the duct cells but not of the underlying beta-cells.
culture|culture|1401|1407|1401|1407|culture|

37|9413929.ab.3|M2
Previous studies have shown that ethanol treatment increases human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) production by cultured human placental trophoblasts.
culture|cultured|107|147|110|117|by cultured human placental trophoblasts.|
PMID- 9413929
TI  - Altered cyclic AMP-dependent human chorionic gonadotropin production in cultured human placental trophoblasts exposed to ethanol.  
AB  - Chronic ethanol abuse during pregnancy can cause fetal injury, including the fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). A contributing factor in this fetal injury may be the effect of ethanol on placental function. Previous studies have shown that ethanol treatment increases human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) production by cultured human placental trophoblasts. In this study, we demonstrated that the stimulation of hCG production correlates with the ethanol concentration. Ethanol treatment enhanced intracellular adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) levels in response to either cholera toxin (CTX) or forskolin (FSK). Moreover, basal (i.e. unstimulated) cAMP levels were increased at 2 hr of ethanol exposure. However, this effect did not persist throughout the 24-hr incubation period. Therefore, ethanol treatment appears to induce increased hCG production, secondary to enhanced basal or stimulated cAMP production. The effect of ethanol was not associated with changes in Gs or Gi2 expression, as determined by northern blot and western blot analyses. In plasma membrane preparations from ethanol-treated cells, cAMP production was higher in response to Mn2+, a direct stimulator of adenylyl cyclase. Inclusion of Rp-cAMP, a protein kinase A inhibitor, eliminated the ethanol effect on hCG production. Treatment of cells with 8-Br-cAMP stimulated hCG production, but there was no difference between the ethanol-naive control and the ethanol-treated cells. These data suggest that ethanol treatment increases in vitro hCG production in human placental trophoblasts by enhancing cAMP production. Ethanol treatment appears to increase trophoblast adenylyl cyclase activity.
culture|cultured|468|508|471|478|by cultured human placental trophoblasts.|

38|9430369.ab.4|M2
Here we have evaluated the role of paraoxonase in prevention of LDL oxidation by using HDL subfractions, isolated from human serum or EDTA-plasma, which display markedly different levels of paraoxonase activity; the abilities of modified forms of HDL to prevent LDL oxidation by cultured human (THP-1) macrophages were also assessed.
culture|cultured|276|292|279|286|by cultured human|
PMID- 9430369
TI  - Evidence for a paraoxonase-independent inhibition of low-density lipoprotein oxidation by high-density lipoprotein.  
AB  - One mechanism by which plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) may protect against atherogenesis is by inhibiting the oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL). Recent evidence suggests that paraoxonase, an HDL-associated, calcium-dependent enzyme, may be responsible for the antioxidant action of HDL (Mackness et al., Atherosclerosis 1993;104:129; Mackness et al., FEBS Lett 1991;286:152; Watson et al., J Clin Invest 1995;96:2882; Navab et al., Arterio Thromb Vasc Biol 1996;16:831); in particular, paraoxonase activity inhibits the formation of 'minimally oxidized' LDL by hydrolyzing biologically active oxidized phospholipids (Watson et al., J Clin Invest 1995;96:2882; Navab et al., Arterio Thromb Vasc Biol 1996;16:831). However, antioxidant effects of HDL have also been demonstrated under calcium-free conditions, arguing that this enzyme may not be the only mechanism by which HDL inhibits LDL oxidation (Tribble et al., J Lipid Res 1995;36:2580). Here we have evaluated the role of paraoxonase in prevention of LDL oxidation by using HDL subfractions, isolated from human serum or EDTA-plasma, which display markedly different levels of paraoxonase activity; the abilities of modified forms of HDL to prevent LDL oxidation by cultured human (THP-1) macrophages were also assessed. Paraoxonase activity was substantially lower in HDL prepared from plasma compared to serum HDL; moreover, virtually all of the lipoprotein-associated paraoxonase activity was located in the HDL3 fraction, with HDL2 retaining only 1-5% of the total activity. Despite possessing 5-fold differences in paraoxonase activity, HDL3 isolated from plasma or serum was equally effective in inhibiting LDL oxidation by THP-1 macrophages; furthermore, although plasma HDL3 was more protective than plasma HDL2, the latter did significantly inhibit LDL oxidation. Non-paraoxonase antioxidant constituents of plasma HDL3 were investigated further. ApoHDL3, the totally delipidated form of HDL3, was much less effective than native HDL3; when examined individually, purified apolipoprotein A-II gave greater protection than apo A-I, although this effect was not evident in apo A-II-enriched HDL3. Partial delipidation of HDL3, which removes both neutral lipids and alpha-tocopherol, did not significantly diminish its ability to inhibit LDL oxidation by THP-1 macrophages; phospholipid vesicles prepared from partially delipidated HDL3 also inhibited LDL oxidation effectively. We conclude that, in this model of cellular LDL oxidation, the phospholipid fraction of HDL exerts inhibitory effects which are independent of HDL paraoxonase activity.
culture|cultured|1379|1395|1382|1389|by cultured human|

39|9351230.ab.7|M2
When co-cultured with L. monocytogenes in MRS broth, the isolate inhibited the growth of L. monocytogenes at 4 degrees C after 14 d and at 10 degrees C after 2 d.
culture|cultured|8|15|8|15|cultured|
PMID- 9351230
TI  - Isolation and characterization of nisin-producing Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis from bean-sprouts.  
AB  - Bacterial isolates from bean-sprouts were screened for anti-Listeria monocytogenes bacteriocins using a well diffusion method. Thirty-four of 72 isolates inhibited the growth of L. monocytogenes Scott A. One, HPB 1688, which had the biggest inhibition zone against L. monocytogenes Scott A, was selected for subsequent analysis. Both ribotyping and DNA sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA gene demonstrated that the isolate was Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis. Polymerase chain reaction and nucleotide sequencing revealed that the genomic DNA of the bean-sprout isolates contained a nisin Z structural gene. In MRS broth, bean-sprout isolate HPB 1688 survived at 3-4.5 degrees C for at least 20 d, grew at 4 degrees C and produced anti-listerial compounds at 5 degrees C. When co-cultured with L. monocytogenes in MRS broth, the isolate inhibited the growth of L. monocytogenes at 4 degrees C after 14 d and at 10 degrees C after 2 d. When co-inoculated with 10(2) cells g-1 of L. monocytogenes on fresh-cut ready-to-eat Caesar salad, L. lactis subsp. lactis (10(8) cells g-1) was able to reduce the number of L. monocytogenes by 1-1.4 logs after storage for 10 d at 7 zero and 10 degrees C. A bacteriocin-producing Enterococcus faecium was also able to reduce the numbers of L. monocytogenes on Caesar salad, but did not act synergistically when co-inoculated with L. lactis subsp. lactis.
culture|cultured|908|915|908|915|cultured|

40|9389667.ab.5|M2
By 24 hours in culture, medial edge epithelia form adherent midline seams in all paired groups without intact beaks.
culture|culture|12|22|15|21|in culture,|
PMID- 9389667
TI  - TGFbeta3 promotes transformation of chicken palate medial edge epithelium to mesenchyme in vitro.  
AB  - Epithelial-mesenchymal transformation plays an important role in the disappearance of the midline line epithelial seam in rodent palate, leading to confluence of the palate. The aim of this study was to test the potential of the naturally cleft chicken palate to become confluent under the influence of growth factors, such as TGFbeta3, which are known to promote epithelial-mesenchymal transformation. After labeling medial edge epithelia with carboxyfluorescein, palatal shelves (E8-9) with or without beak were dissected and cultured on agar gels. TGFbeta1, TGFbeta2 or TGFbeta3 was added to the chemically defined medium. By 24 hours in culture, medial edge epithelia form adherent midline seams in all paired groups without intact beaks. After 72 hours, seams in the TGFbeta3 groups disappear and palates become confluent due to epithelial-mesenchymal transformation, while seams remain mainly epithelial in control, TGFbeta1 and TGFbeta2 groups. Epithelium-derived mesenchymal cells are identified by carboxyfluorescein fluorescence with confocal microscopy and by membrane-bound carboxyfluorescein isolation bodies with electron microscopy. Labeled fibroblasts completely replace the labeled epithelia of origin in TGFbeta3-treated palates without beaks. Single palates are unable to undergo transformation, and paired palatal shelves with intact beaks do not adhere or undergo transformation, even when treated with TGFbeta3. Thus, physical contact of medial edge epithelia and formation of the midline seam are necessary for epithelial-mesenchymal transformation to be triggered. We conclude that there may be no fundamental difference in developmental potential of the medial edge epithelium for transformation to mesenchyme among reptiles, birds and mammals. The bird differs from other amniotes in having developed a beak and associated craniofacial structures that seemingly keep palatal processes separated in vivo. Even control medial edge epithelia partly transform to mesenchyme if placed in close contact. However, exogenous TGFbeta3 is required to achieve complete confluence of the chicken palate.
culture|culture|765|775|768|774|in culture,|

41|9421474.ti.1|M2
Differentiation of cultured keratinocytes promotes the adherence of Streptococcus pyogenes.
culture|cultured|16|40|19|26|of cultured keratinocytes|
PMID- 9421474
TI  - Differentiation of cultured keratinocytes promotes the adherence of Streptococcus pyogenes.  
AB  - Based on a consideration of the histopathology of nonbullous impetigo that shows localization of Streptococcus pyogenes to highly differentiated, subcorneal keratinocytes, we hypothesized that adherence of an impetigo strain of S. pyogenes would be promoted by terminal differentiation of keratinocytes. An assay was developed in which S. pyogenes adhered via pilus-like projections from the cell wall to the surface of cultured human keratinocytes in a time- and inoculum-dependent manner suggestive of a receptor-mediated process. Terminal differentiation of keratinocytes was induced by increasing the calcium concentration in the growth medium, and was confirmed by morphologic analysis using electron microscopy. Adherence of S. pyogenes was three and fourfold greater to keratinocytes differentiated in 1.0 and 1.5 mM calcium, respectively, compared with undifferentiated keratinocytes in 0.15 mM calcium. The presence of calcium during the adherence assay further enhanced adherence nearly twofold. Adherence occurred preferentially to sites of contact between adjacent keratinocytes, suggesting that the keratinocyte receptor may be a molecule involved in cell-to-cell adhesion. In contrast, nonpathogenic Streptococcus gordonii adhered poorly to keratinocytes regardless of their state of terminal differentiation, and adherence of a pharyngeal strain of S. pyogenes was twofold greater to undifferentiated than differentiated keratinocytes. This is the first report of in vitro adherence of S. pyogenes to keratinocytes in a manner that emulates human impetigo. Adherence of only the impetigo strain, and not the pharyngeal strain of S. pyogenes or the nonpathogenic S. gorgonii isolate, was promoted by keratinocyte differentiation. This result provides a model system for investigating the molecular pathogenesis of streptococcal skin infections.
culture|cultured|37|61|40|47|of cultured keratinocytes|

42|9455058.ab.1|M2
Detection of Helicobacter pylori was studied on the feces and biopsy specimens of 91 patients with gastric ulcer by using cultured and polymerase chain reaction methods.
culture|cultured|122|129|122|129|cultured|
PMID- 9455058
TI  - [Usefulness of Helicobacter pylori detection from feces specimens of the patients with peptic ulcer by polymerase chain reaction]  
AB  - Detection of Helicobacter pylori was studied on the feces and biopsy specimens of 91 patients with gastric ulcer by using cultured and polymerase chain reaction methods. Number of samples from feces and biopsy specimens were 1 (1.1%) and 56 (61.5%) by culture method, on the other hands 49 (53.8%) and 70 (76.9%) in polymerase chain reaction method, respectively. Sensitivity of polymerase chain reaction applied to feces and biopsy specimens were 68.1 and 97.2, respectively. Noninvasive diagnosis such as detection of organisms from feces is effective for patients who have difficulty in collecting the gastric biopsy specimens. Infection route was not clarified, however, fecal-to-oral transmission was strongly suggested by the fact that the organisms were detected from feces samples in this study.
culture|cultured|281|288|281|288|cultured|

43|9439607.ab.3|M2
CXCR4 mRNA was expressed at high levels in BAEC and HUVEC but was not expressed by cultured bovine arterial smooth muscle cells (BASM) or human umbilical vein smooth muscle cells (HUVSM).
culture|cultured|83|90|83|90|cultured|
PMID- 9439607
TI  - Chemokine receptor CXCR4 expression in endothelium.  
AB  - The expression of chemokine receptor and viral coreceptor CXCR4 is reported in cultured endothelial cells and in arterial endothelium. A 1.9 kb transcript was cloned from cultured bovine aortic (BAEC) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). CXCR4 mRNA was expressed at high levels in BAEC and HUVEC but was not expressed by cultured bovine arterial smooth muscle cells (BASM) or human umbilical vein smooth muscle cells (HUVSM). Western blotting with polyclonal antibodies demonstrated an approximate 46KD protein in endothelial cells only. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry (anti-CXCR4 monoclonal antibody 12G5) revealed both transcript and protein expression in cultured endothelial cells, and in the endothelium of normal aorta but not in aortic smooth muscle. The ligand for CXCR4, stromal cell derived factor 1 (SDF-1) stimulated mobilization of intracellular calcium at a moderate level (37% of the peak response to thrombin), confirming the expression of functional receptor at the endothelial surface. The involvement of CXCR4 in chemokine signaling, chemoattraction (through SDF-1), and its potential viral coreceptor activity suggest a multifunctional role in vascular homeostasis and pathophysiology.
culture|cultured|417|424|417|424|cultured|

44|9438153.ab.2|M2
It was shown that the diagnostic value of the enteroprobe in the detection of the Helicobacter pylori infection was relatively high in comparison with the results of the culture of the segments of the mucosa, especially for ulcers of the pyloric area and of the duodenum, whereas that value fell considerably for located in the cardia of the stomach.
culture|culture|163|176|170|176|of the culture|
PMID- 9438153
TI  - Role of the enterotest in the diagnosis of the Helicobacter pylori infections.  
AB  - Among 128 patients with gastric and duodenal ulcer a diagnosis was made of Helicobacter pylori infections using the 14C-urea breath test (reference) as well as by a bacteriological test; from each patient the material for culture was obtained in two ways: Through gastroscopy-segments, and through an enterotest. It was shown that the diagnostic value of the enteroprobe in the detection of the Helicobacter pylori infection was relatively high in comparison with the results of the culture of the segments of the mucosa, especially for ulcers of the pyloric area and of the duodenum, whereas that value fell considerably for located in the cardia of the stomach. The entero-probe is thus recommended as a method of diagnosing Helicobacter pylori infections (using the bacterial material for culture and the antibiogram) but only for peptic ulcers of a selected location (pyloric area, duodenum).
culture|culture|584|597|591|597|of the culture|

45|9441690.ab.4|M2
In whole embryo culture, Ang II added to the culture media resulted in increased ventricular growth and myocyte hypertrophy when treated embryos were compared to cultured littermate controls.
culture|cultured|159|190|162|169|to cultured littermate controls.|
PMID- 9441690
TI  - The effects of angiotensin II and specific angiotensin receptor blockers on embryonic cardiac development and looping patterns.  
AB  - The role of angiotensin II (Ang II) in the early embryonic development of the heart has not been examined. We have used RT-PCR to identify mRNA for angiotensinogen, angiotensin-converting enzyme, and the Ang II AT1 and AT2 receptors in embryonic day 10.25 Sprague-Dawley rats, and have used confocal microscopy to localize the AT1 receptor to the greater curvature of the developing ventricle in these animals at embryonic days (ED) 9.25 and 10.25. The antibodies used in immunolocalization studies did not distinguish between the AT1a and AT1b receptor subtypes. In whole embryo culture, Ang II added to the culture media resulted in increased ventricular growth and myocyte hypertrophy when treated embryos were compared to cultured littermate controls. Use of Losartan and PD123,319 to block the Ang II AT1 and AT2 receptors resulted in reduced ventricular development and cardiac dilation when compared to control and Ang II-treated embryos. Addition of Ang II and PD123,319 to the culture media also resulted in cardiac loop inversions which may be associated with disruption of normal myofibrillar development. These results clearly indicate an important role for Ang II in the early embryonic development of the heart.
culture|cultured|880|911|883|890|to cultured littermate controls.|

46|9443826.ab.4|M2
Establishment of primary cultured epithelial cells from lactating bovine mammary gland and their culture on collagen-coated dishes in the presence of a mixture of lactogenic hormones revealed that N-linked sugar chains with GalNAc beta1-->4GlcNAc structure are expressed in the functionally differentiated cells without altering the apparent beta-galactosylation of the oligosaccharides.
culture|culture|97|103|97|103|culture|
PMID- 9443826
TI  - Expression of beta-N-acetylgalactosaminylated N-linked sugar chains is associated with functional differentiation of bovine mammary gland.  
AB  - During lactation the mammary gland synthesizes a large amount of glycoproteins including those composing milk fat globule membrane (MFGM). Our previous study showed that N-linked sugar chains with GalNAc beta1-->4GlcNAc structure appears to increase in bovine MFGM glycoproteins during early lactation [Ujita et al. (1993) FEBS Lett. 332, 119-122]. Western blot analysis of membrane glycoproteins from lactating and post-lactating bovine mammary glands using Wistaria floribunda agglutinin (WFA), which binds oligosaccharides terminating with beta-N-acetylgalactosamine, and Ricinus communis agglutinin-I (RCA-I), which binds oligosaccharides preferentially terminating with beta-1,4-galactose, showed that the number and reactivity of protein bands to WFA but not to RCA-I decrease drastically in the post-lactating mammary sample. Establishment of primary cultured epithelial cells from lactating bovine mammary gland and their culture on collagen-coated dishes in the presence of a mixture of lactogenic hormones revealed that N-linked sugar chains with GalNAc beta1-->4GlcNAc structure are expressed in the functionally differentiated cells without altering the apparent beta-galactosylation of the oligosaccharides. These results strongly suggest that the expression of GalNAc beta1-->4GlcNAc structure on N-linked sugar chains is associated with the mammary gland differentiation.
culture|culture|1098|1104|1098|1104|culture|

47|9464806.ab.9|M2
OX6 also inhibited antigen acquisition by R1-trans, a variant of the R1 T cell line which constitutively synthesizes high levels of I-A, from MBP-pulsed IrrSPL but blockade of I-A did not inhibit antigen acquisition when soluble MBP was added directly to the culture.
culture|culture|252|266|259|265|to the culture.|
PMID- 9464806
TI  - Antigen presentation by T cells: T cell receptor ligation promotes antigen acquisition from professional antigen-presenting cells.  
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine whether the clonotypic specificity of the T cell receptor influences the specificity of T cell-mediated antigen presentation. We have previously shown that myelin basic protein (MBP)-specific Lewis rat GP2.E5/R1 (R1) T cells cultured with antigen, irradiated syngeneic splenocytes (IrrSPL) and tolerogenic monoclonal antibody become highly effective antigen-presenting cells (APC). In the current studies, we investigated the transfer of specific (MBP) and unrelated (conalbumin) antigens from antigen-pulsed SPL to R1 T cells. R1 T cells cultured with IrrSPL that were pulsed simultaneously with both MBP and conalbumin acquired and presented both antigens to the appropriate T cell responders in a secondary assay. These results suggested a physical transfer of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)/peptide complexes from professional APC to R1 T cells. Transfer of conalbumin from professional APC to R1 T cells required specific recognition of MBP and was optimal when both conalbumin and MBP were presented on the same group of professional APC. Antigens transfer did not occur when allogeneic SPL were used as APC. The anti-I-A mAb OX6 inhibited antigen transfer but only when added during the initiation of culture. OX6 also inhibited antigen acquisition by R1-trans, a variant of the R1 T cell line which constitutively synthesizes high levels of I-A, from MBP-pulsed IrrSPL but blockade of I-A did not inhibit antigen acquisition when soluble MBP was added directly to the culture. Despite constitutive synthesis of I-A, R1-trans T cells did not acquire guinea pig MBP from pulsed allogeneic APC. These studies demonstrate that although T cells of a particular specificity can present unrelated antigens, the cognate interaction of the T cell antigen receptor with the appropriate antigen/self-MHC complex strongly promotes acquisition of these complexes from professional APC.
culture|culture|1680|1694|1687|1693|to the culture.|

48|9405170.ab.4|M2
The effect of cilazaprilat (CILA, 10 micro M), an ACE inhibitor, on redox status, expression of the adhesion molecule P-selectin, and PMN adhesion under conditions of oxidative stress was investigated in cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs).
culture|cultured|204|211|204|211|cultured|
PMID- 9405170
TI  - Effects of ACE-inhibition on redox status and expression of P-selectin of endothelial cells subjected to oxidative stress.  
AB  - Redox stress during post-ischemic reperfusion may be the prime signal for processes leading to myocardial remodelling and hypertrophy. Nitric oxide (NO) is antioxidative, antiadhesive for neutrophils (PMN) and antiproliferative. Thus, enhancing endothelial production of NO, e.g. by inhibiting breakdown of endogenous bradykinin via angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), could be beneficial. The effect of cilazaprilat (CILA, 10 micro M), an ACE inhibitor, on redox status, expression of the adhesion molecule P-selectin, and PMN adhesion under conditions of oxidative stress was investigated in cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Incubation of the cells with H2O2 (0.1 and 1 mm) for 15 min served as oxidative stimulus. The intra- and extracellular concentrations of reduced and oxidized glutathione (GSH and GSSG) were measured by HPLC as indicators of endothelial redox status. Expression of P-selectin was measured by flow cytometry. Furthermore, firm leukocyte adhesion to HUVECs was assessed. In controls, the intracellular ratio GSH/GSSG averaged 47 and dropped to 30 after incubation with 0.1 mm H2O2. The ratio declined to 6.5 with 1 mm H2O2. CILA blocked the effects of 0.1 mm H2O2, but was ineffective against 1 mm peroxide. The extracellular ratio did not discriminate between 0.1 and 1 mm H2O2, falling from 18 to 1 in both situations. P-selectin expression rose from 100% (control) to 146% after 1 mm H2O2 without CILA, but only to 114% in the presence of CILA. PMN adhesion was enhanced from about 1600 PMN per microwell (control) to 4300/well by 1 mm H2O2. CILA had no significant effect on adhesion (3900 PMN/well). Exposure of HUVECs to 0.1 mm H2O2 affected neither P-selectin expression nor PMN adhesion. Consequently, ACE inhibition can mitigate mild (0.1 mm H2O2) but not more severe redox stress in HUVECs. Irrespectively, CILA reduced the upregulation of P-selectin at the higher H2O2 concentration, indicating that this process is regulated independently of the cellular redox status. The firm adhesion of PMN to HUVECs was independent of P-selectin expression. Copyright 1997 Academic Press Limited.
culture|cultured|747|754|747|754|cultured|

49|9431802.ab.7|M2
These results demonstrate that SCF/c-kit interaction contributes to the adhesion of primordial germ cells to somatic cells in culture and suggest that the role played by SCF in promoting survival, proliferation and migration of these cells in vitro and in vivo, demonstrated by several studies, might depend on the ability of the membrane-bound form of this cytokine to directly mediate primordial germ cell adhesion to the surrounding somatic cells.
culture|culture|123|132|126|132|in culture|
PMID- 9431802
TI  - The c-kit receptor is involved in the adhesion of mouse primordial germ cells to somatic cells in culture.  
AB  - The receptor encoded by the W (c-kit) locus is expressed on the membrane of mouse primordial germ cells, whereas its ligand termed stem cell factor (SCF), encoded by the Sl locus, is expressed on the membrane of somatic cells associated with both the primordial germ cell migratory pathways and homing sites. Using an in vitro short time assay which allows a quantitative measure of adhesion between cells, in the present paper we show that SCF/c-kit interaction can modulate primordial germ cell adhesion to somatic cells. We report that the adhesiveness of 11.5 dpc primordial germ cells to four types of somatic cells in culture (TM4 cells, STO fibroblasts, bone marrow stromal cells and gonadal somatic cells) is significantly reduced by antibodies directed against c-kit receptor or SCF, as well by soluble SCF. This SCF/c-kit mediated adhesion seems independent of SCF-induced tyrosine autophosphorylation of c-kit receptor. Moreover, primordial germ cells showed a poor ability to adhere to a bone marrow stromal cell line carrying the Sl(d) mutation (unable to synthesize membrane-bound SCF). This adhesiveness was not further impaired by anti-c-kit antibody. These results demonstrate that SCF/c-kit interaction contributes to the adhesion of primordial germ cells to somatic cells in culture and suggest that the role played by SCF in promoting survival, proliferation and migration of these cells in vitro and in vivo, demonstrated by several studies, might depend on the ability of the membrane-bound form of this cytokine to directly mediate primordial germ cell adhesion to the surrounding somatic cells.
culture|culture|1427|1436|1430|1436|in culture|

50|9458279.ab.1|M2
In order to understand the mechanisms by which fatty acids are taken up by the placenta, the uptake of oleic, linoleic, arachidonic, and docosahexaenoic acids by cultured human placental choriocarcinoma (BeWo) cells was examined.
culture|cultured|159|201|162|169|by cultured human placental choriocarcinoma|
PMID- 9458279
TI  - Uptake of long chain fatty acids by human placental choriocarcinoma (BeWo) cells: role of plasma membrane fatty acid-binding protein.  
AB  - In order to understand the mechanisms by which fatty acids are taken up by the placenta, the uptake of oleic, linoleic, arachidonic, and docosahexaenoic acids by cultured human placental choriocarcinoma (BeWo) cells was examined. Fatty acid uptake by BeWo cells was temperature-dependent and exhibited saturable kinetics. Oleic acid was taken up least and docosahexaenoic acid most by these cells. Moreover, competitive studies of fatty acid uptake by BeWo cells also indicated preferential uptake compared with oleic acid in the order of docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid, and linoleic acid. Western blot analysis demonstrated that BeWo cells express a protein immunoreactive with antibodies to the human placental plasma membrane fatty acid-binding protein (p-FABPpm). Furthermore, pre-treatment of BeWo cells with these antibodies inhibited most of the uptake of docosahexaenoic (64%) and arachidonic acids (68%) whereas oleic acid uptake was inhibited only 32% compared with the controls treated with preimmune serum. These results clearly demonstrate that the pFABPpm may be involved in the preferential uptake of essential fatty acids (EFA) and their long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) by these cells. Studies on the distribution of radiolabeled fatty acids in the cellular lipids of BeWo cells showed that docosahexaenoic acid was incorporated mainly in the triacylglycerol fraction, followed by the phospholipid fraction, whereas for arachidonic acid the reverse was true. The preferential incorporation of docosahexaenoic acid into triacylglycerol suggests that triacylglycerol may play an important role in the placental transport of docosahexaenoic acid to the fetal circulation. Together these results demonstrate the preferential uptake of EFA/LCPUFA by BeWo cells that is most probably mediated via the pFABPpm. We thus propose that the p-FABPpm may be involved in the sequestration of maternal plasma LCPUFA by the placenta.
culture|cultured|322|364|325|332|by cultured human placental choriocarcinoma|

51|9495234.ab.5|M2
Neither cell type organized a TN-C matrix when cultured alone; however, when co-cultured with HSC-3 cells, PTF were able to assemble a TN-C matrix.
culture|cultured|47|54|47|54|cultured|
PMID- 9495234
TI  - Tenascin-C matrix assembly in oral squamous cell carcinoma.  
AB  - We previously showed that the extracellular matrix component tenascin-C (TN-C) is upregulated in oral squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) compared with the normal oral mucosa. In this study we examined oral biopsy specimens of mild to moderate dysplasia or carcinoma in situ to study TN-C expression. We found that carcinoma in situ is the stage at which TN-C becomes widely expressed, suggesting it may be involved in the initial stages of tumor progression. To study TN-C matrix production in vitro, we used an invasive oral SCC cell line (HSC-3) and peri-tumor fibroblasts (PTF). Neither cell type organized a TN-C matrix when cultured alone; however, when co-cultured with HSC-3 cells, PTF were able to assemble a TN-C matrix. PTF retained the ability to organize a TN-C matrix when separated from the HSC-3 cells by a semi-permeable membrane, indicating that cell-cell contact is not necessary for TN-C matrix organization and suggesting that soluble factors may be involved. Moreover, PTF were induced to assemble TN-C matrices when grown in medium conditioned by both the PTF and HSC-3 cells. Antibodies to fibronectin (FN) and to the first FN type III repeat blocked both FN and TN-C matrix assembly, indicating that TN-C matrix organization is dependent on an FN template. Antibodies to alpha5, alphav and beta1 integrins also blocked TN-C matrix formation. When seeded onto FN matrices, the co-cultures were unaffected by the anti-integrin and anti-FN antibodies and were able to organize a TN-C matrix. Our results suggest that progression of malignant oral SCC is accompanied by an alteration of the normal ECM to one rich in TN-C, and that the organization of a TN-C matrix is dependent on soluble cues provided by both the SCC cells and the PTF.
culture|cultured|713|720|713|720|cultured|

52|9500185.ab.4|M2
BLM sensitivity assay on cultured lymphocytes of 36 familial breast cancer patients, their 85 first or second degree female relatives, 36 sporadic breast cancer patients and 40 age- and sex-matched controls (without any family history of cancer) were carried out to measure interindividual variation in their DNA repair capacity through mutagen-induced chromosome sensitivity analysis.
culture|cultured|22|44|25|32|on cultured lymphocytes|
PMID- 9500185
TI  - DNA repair proficiency: a potential marker for identification of high risk members in breast cancer families.  
AB  - Breast cancer is the single largest cancer and causes the high rate of cancer mortality among women. A positive family history of breast cancer is recognized as one of the major risk factors for this disease. The present study evaluates bleomycin (BLM)-induced chromosome sensitivity analysis in breast cancer families which provides indirectly a measure of the DNA repair defect of each person. BLM sensitivity assay on cultured lymphocytes of 36 familial breast cancer patients, their 85 first or second degree female relatives, 36 sporadic breast cancer patients and 40 age- and sex-matched controls (without any family history of cancer) were carried out to measure interindividual variation in their DNA repair capacity through mutagen-induced chromosome sensitivity analysis. Fifty percent of familial breast cancer patients and seven unaffected relatives showed hypersensitivity. Compared to hyposensitive relatives these seven subjects may be considered as high risk individuals.
culture|cultured|557|579|560|567|on cultured lymphocytes|

53|9504592.ab.6|M1
Guidelines must be considered in light of local skills, culture, and resources, and need to be individualized to different patients and settings.
culture|culture|56|63|56|62|culture,|
PMID- 9504592
TI  - How to use practice guidelines in the intensive care unit: Diagnosis and management of unstable angina.  
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Practice guidelines are often based on expert opinion, and are sometimes based on research evidence, but are usually a mix of both. The goal of this article is to aid in the evaluation of the validity of practice guidelines. DATA SYNTHESIS: The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Practice Guideline on Management of Unstable Angina and other relevant primary and synthetic research. METHODS: Critical appraisal of guidelines requires understanding how guideline developers identified, appraised, and summarized the evidence, and how they chose the values reflected in their recommendations. To determine whether guidelines are applicable in our practice, we look for clear and concise recommendations about specific populations, describing common options linked to clinically important outcomes. Guidelines must be considered in light of local skills, culture, and resources, and need to be individualized to different patients and settings. CONCLUSIONS: As better evidence and new clinical insights emerge, guidelines require updating. The ultimate value of a guideline is determined by evaluating its effect on process of care, resource utilization, and most importantly, patient outcomes.
culture|culture|1004|1011|1004|1010|culture,|

54|9466179.ab.1|M1
The aim of this paper is to describe the origins, initial steps and strategy, current progress and main accomplishments of introducing a quality management culture within the healthcare system in Poland.
culture|culture|135|162|156|162|a quality management culture|
PMID- 9466179
TI  - Quality management--a challenge for the health care system in Poland.  
AB  - The aim of this paper is to describe the origins, initial steps and strategy, current progress and main accomplishments of introducing a quality management culture within the healthcare system in Poland. The following main points will be discussed: A general overview of the national healthcare context with specific emphasis on major structural and functional problems of the system and on the main factors and forces influencing current changes in healthcare in Poland. Suggestion and explanation of why quality management philosophy, methods and tools introduced into the healthcare system may constitute part of a solution for the problem of how to improve healthcare in Poland. A summary of national activities, illustrating how an implementation strategy was put into action, what has happened so far, and the results and perspectives for the future. A conclusion that foreign aid and international collaboration, used in an appropriate and effective way, may constitute a crucial factor in promoting beneficial changes in countries which, like Poland, are currently undergoing dramatic political, economic and cultural transition.
culture|culture|234|261|255|261|a quality management culture|

55|9467727.ab.5|M1
Through mutual interaction biology in humans becomes culture, and vice versa, culture opens and stimulates the neural passages of the brains, accounting thus for the varieties of brains in humans, and for cultural diversity.
culture|culture|53|60|53|59|culture,|
PMID- 9467727
TI  - The biocultural paradigm: the neural connection between science and mysticism.  
AB  - New discoveries in perceptual psychology, brain chemistry, brain evolution, brain development, ethology, cultural anthropology, the more recent work of MacLean on the structure of the brains and the discovery by Gazzaniga of the role of the, so-called, "interpreter module," are the foundations of a new paradigm on human cortical information processing, called by its discoverer, Dr. M. Colavito, the "biocultural paradigm." This paradigm shows that biology and culture act on one another as the conditioning parameters of neurocultural information. Through mutual interaction biology in humans becomes culture, and vice versa, culture opens and stimulates the neural passages of the brains, accounting thus for the varieties of brains in humans, and for cultural diversity. Culture conditions and stimulates biology, while biology conditions and makes culture possible. Cultures and brains may be distinguished from one another through identification with certain functions or combination of functions that are exercised habitually, or become neural hard-wire through repetition or habit. This new model has replaced older and simpler models of the nature/ nurture controversy, such as the unextended rational substance of Descartes, the tabula rasa of Locke, the associated-matrix of Hume, the passive, reinforcement-driven animal of Skinner, and the genetically hard-wired robot of the sociobiologists. However, elements of these earlier models are included in the new one, but the conversation about human experience has changed, and, therefore, the human images of ourselves. This change was forced on scientists by the importance of the conditionality of the experience of "I" and "not-I" as described by Alex Comfort in his book I and That, and was introduced in the conversations some of us already had with each other. This article focuses on the "I" and "not-I" experiences with a description of the "not-I" or "oceanic" or "mystical" experience to clarify the new paradigm of "biocultures."
culture|culture|712|719|712|718|culture,|

56|9517616.ab.2|M2
Analysis was done by selective culturing, immunoperoxidase (IP) staining, and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
culture|culturing|18|40|31|39|by selective culturing,|
PMID- 9517616
TI  - Haemophilus influenzae in lung explants of patients with end-stage pulmonary disease.  
AB  - In order to determine the presence and distribution of Haemophilus influenzae in lung tissue sections, we obtained lung explants from 49 lung transplant recipients with cystic fibrosis (CF) (n = 16), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) including emphysema (n = 16), bronchiectasis (n = 5), pulmonary hypertension (n = 9), Langerhans cell histiocytosis (n = 1), and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (n = 2). Analysis was done by selective culturing, immunoperoxidase (IP) staining, and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). H. influenzae was cultured from specimens of the lung explants from one CF and one COPD patient. IP staining of tissue sections was positive in 24 patients (10 CF patients, eight COPD patients, two bronchiectasis patients, and four patients with noninfectious pulmonary diseases). IP-positive tissue sections were PCR-positive, and IP-negative sections were PCR-negative. H. influenzae was more frequently detected in tissue sections of lung explants from CF and COPD patients than from patients with bronchiectasis or noninfectious pulmonary diseases. H. influenzae was diffusely present in the epithelium, the submucosa of the bronchi, the bronchioles, the interstitium, and the alveolar epithelium. H. influenzae was localized extracellularly alone and in bacterial clusters, and was also associated with macrophages in CF patients. The results of this study demonstrate that H. influenzae is often present in the lungs of patients with end-stage pulmonary disease, especially CF and COPD patients. H. influenzae is diffusely present in the respiratory epithelium and subepithelial layers of the lungs of these patients.
culture|culturing|546|568|559|567|by selective culturing,|

57|9492221.ab.8|M2
Rat peritoneal macrophages co-cultured with osteoblasts in a transwell culture system mimicked the observed PHB-P induced ALP elevation.
culture|cultured|30|37|30|37|cultured|
PMID- 9492221
TI  - Degradable and highly porous polyesterurethane foam as biomaterial: effects and phagocytosis of degradation products in osteoblasts.  
AB  - Recently, a new class of biodegradable PHB-based polyesterurethane (DegraPol/btc) has been prepared and found to exhibit favorable cell and tissue compatibility. The present study has been designed to evaluate the response of primary isolated rat tibia osteoblasts to small crystalline particles of short-chain poly[(R)-3-hydroxybutyric acid] (PHB-P diameter: 2-20 microm), of fluorescent-labeled analogs (DPHP-P), and of lysine methyl ester as possible degradation products of DegraPol/btc. Observations made using confocal microscopy clearly indicate that osteoblasts have the capability of taking up PHB-P particles. Although in single-cell analysis the number of DPHB-P-positive osteoblasts gradually increased up to 16 days, the fluorescence intensity per osteoblast increased only during the first 4 h after DPHB-P incubation, and then it retained the 4 h level up to 16 days. No significant change in the production levels of collagen type I and osteocalcin was detectable after treatment with low concentrations of PHB-P for up to 32 days. In contrast, a time- and dose-dependent alteration of the alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was found. Maximal activity was measured after 4 days of treatment with 2 microg of PHB-P/mL (170% of control cells). Rat peritoneal macrophages co-cultured with osteoblasts in a transwell culture system mimicked the observed PHB-P induced ALP elevation. Therefore, the PHB-P-induced ALP increase could be the result of direct or indirect stimulation of osteoblasts, possibly via soluble factors produced by contaminating osteoclasts. Taken collectively, the data demonstrate that osteoblasts are capable of phagocytosing PHB-P and that this process is accompanied at low PHB-P concentrations by dose- and time-dependent alteration of alkaline phosphatase activity but not of collagen type I or osteocalcin.
culture|cultured|1452|1459|1452|1459|cultured|

58|9550400.ab.3|M2
In this study, we used multiparameter FACS analysis to examine expression of CLA vs IFN-gamma, IL-4, and IL-2 synthesis capabilities among fresh peripheral blood CD4+ memory T cells, and Th1 vs Th2 memory T cells generated in vitro from purified CD4+ naive precursors by cyclic activation in polarizing culture conditions.
culture|culture|289|321|303|309|in polarizing culture conditions.|
PMID- 9550400
TI  - Independent regulation of cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen expression and cytokine synthesis phenotype during human CD4+ memory T cell differentiation.  
AB  - Although considerable attention has been paid to the development of cytokine synthesis heterogeneity during memory T cell differentiation, little information is available on how this function is coregulated with homing receptor expression. The development of skin-homing, CD4+ memory T cells in the human provides an excellent model for such investigation, since 1) the skin supports both Th1- and Th2-predominant responses in different settings, and 2) the skin-homing capability of human memory T cells correlates with and appears to depend on expression of the skin-selective homing receptor cutaneous lymphocyte-associated Ag (CLA). In this study, we used multiparameter FACS analysis to examine expression of CLA vs IFN-gamma, IL-4, and IL-2 synthesis capabilities among fresh peripheral blood CD4+ memory T cells, and Th1 vs Th2 memory T cells generated in vitro from purified CD4+ naive precursors by cyclic activation in polarizing culture conditions. Among normal peripheral blood T cells, CLA expression was essentially identical among the IFN-gamma- vs IL-4-producing CD4+ memory subsets, clearly indicating the existence of in vivo mechanisms capable of producing both Th1 vs Th2 skin-homing T cells. In vitro differentiation of naive CD4+ T cells confirmed the independent regulation of CLA and all three cytokines examined, regulation that allowed differential production of IFN-gamma-, IL-4-, and IL-2-producing, CLA+ memory subsets. These studies also 1) demonstrated differences in regulatory factor activity depending on the differentiation status of the responding cell, and 2) revealed CLA expression to be much more rapidly reversible on established memory cells than cytokine synthesis capabilities.
culture|culture|1114|1146|1128|1134|in polarizing culture conditions.|

59|9538624.ti.1|M2
Effects of prostaglandins on ethanol damage in primary cultured rat hepatocytes.
culture|cultured|44|79|55|62|in primary cultured rat hepatocytes.|
PMID- 9538624
TI  - Effects of prostaglandins on ethanol damage in primary cultured rat hepatocytes.  
AB  - OBJECTIVES: Several reports demonstrated that ethanol administration impairs the DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes. Also, it has been demonstrated that prostaglandin (PG) helps prevent membrane damage by hepatotoxic chemicals. In this study, the authors examined PG's effects on the toxicity of ethanol in the primary culture of rat regenerations. METHODS: We examined two kinds of parameters, i.e., DNA synthesis and lipid peroxidation in the primary culture of rat hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were isolated by the collagenase perfusion method. The rate of DNA synthesis was determined by pulse-labelling cultured cells with [3H]-thymidine. Incorporation of (3H)-thymidine was determined by liquid scintillation spectrophotometer. DNA content was measured by the fluorescence spectrophotometer. The lipid peroxidation was assayed with spectrophotometer. RESULTS: The results were as follows: 1) PG family (PGA1, PGD2, PGE1, PGE2, PGG2a, PGI2 & Thromboxane B2) stimulated the DNA synthesis of hepatocytes (especially PGD2 and PGE1), 2) ethanol decreased DNA synthesis by clear dose-dependent manner, 3) the combined treatment of PGD2 or PGE1, prevents the decreasing of DNA synthesis, which was induced by ethanol, 4) in ethanol treatment, lipid peroxidation was decreased significantly, but PGD2, PGE1 and PGA1 were not affected, and 5) PGD2, PGE1 and PGA1 decreased lipid peroxidation with ethanol, significantly. CONCLUSIONS: From these results, we concluded that PG could be useful for the treatment of degenerative liver disease and alcohol-induced liver disease in the assumption that further studies on the action mechanisms of PG will continue.
culture|cultured|65|100|76|83|in primary cultured rat hepatocytes.|

60|9540792.ab.1|M2
A novel thermostable neutral proteinase, called NPS, was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from the culture broth of Saccharomonospora canescens sp. novus, strain 5.
culture|culture|97|118|106|112|from the culture broth|
PMID- 9540792
TI  - A novel thermostable neutral proteinase from Saccharomonospora canescens.  
AB  - A novel thermostable neutral proteinase, called NPS, was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from the culture broth of Saccharomonospora canescens sp. novus, strain 5. The molecular mass was determined by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to be 35,000 Da. The enzyme exhibits a sharp pH optimum of proteolytic activity at pH 6.7. NPS was completely inactivated with inhibitors, typical for metalloendopeptidases, EDTA and 1,10-phenantroline, whereas the serine proteinase inhibitor PMSF had no effect. Atomic absorption measurements showed that the proteinase binds a single zinc and four calcium ions. The enzyme thermostability was characterized in the absence and presence of added calcium. Melting temperature, Tm = 77 degrees C and an activation energy, Ea, for the thermal deactivation of the excited protein fluorophores of 72.13 kJ mol-1 were calculated in the presence of 100 mM CaCl2. The Ea-value is considerably higher than those obtained for a number of proteinases from microorganisms and was explained by the thermostable structure of the enzyme. Effective radiationless energy transfer from phenol groups to indole rings was observed. 68% of the light absorbed by tyrosyl residues is transferred to tryptophyl side chains. No homology was found after comparison of the NPS N-terminal sequence, including the first 26 residues, with those of other neutral proteinases from microorganisms. In contrast to the well-known bacterial neutral proteinase thermolysin and related enzymes from microorganisms, NPS possesses arylamidase and esterase activities. Further crystallographic studies will reveal the structural reasons for this specificity. Epoxy and epithio pyranosides are inhibitors of the proteinase arylamidase activity.
culture|culture|200|221|209|215|from the culture broth|

61|9535056.ab.3|M2
The developmental pattern of APP moeities in mouse hypothalamus and in fetal hypothalamic neurons in culture was compared with a presenilin 2 (PS2) related protein using an antibody developed against the N-terminal part of PS2.
culture|culture|98|107|101|107|in culture|
PMID- 9535056
TI  - Profiles of amyloid precursor and presenilin 2-like proteins are correlated during development of the mouse hypothalamus.  
AB  - The amyloid precursor protein (APP) and APP-like (APLP) material, as visualized with the Mab22C11 antibody, have previously been shown to be associated with radial glia in hypothalamus, which are known to promote neurite outgrowth. By Northern blot analysis, APP 695 mRNA levels increased steadily over hypothalamic development, APP 770 mRNA was transiently expressed at 12 days postnatally, and APLP mRNA was only weakly expressed in the hypothalamus. The developmental pattern of APP moeities in mouse hypothalamus and in fetal hypothalamic neurons in culture was compared with a presenilin 2 (PS2) related protein using an antibody developed against the N-terminal part of PS2. By Western blot analysis, APP and PS2-like immunoreactivity were visualized as a 100-130 and 52 kDa bands, respectively. An APP biphasic increase was observed during hypothalamic development in vivo. APP immunoreactivity was equally detected in neuronal and glial cultures, while PS2-like material was more concentrated in neurons. A correlation between APP/APP-like and PS2-like levels was observed during development in vivo. While APP was mostly associated with membrane fractions, a significant portion of PS2-like material was also recovered from cytosolic fractions in vitro. In contrast to native PS2 in COS-transfected cells, the PS2-like material did not aggregate after heating for 90 s at 90 degrees C. These results indicate a close association between APP and PS2-like material during hypothalamic development in vivo, and suggest that neuronal and glial cultures may provide appropriate models to test their interactions.
culture|culture|702|711|705|711|in culture|

62|9566755.ab.6|M2
However, studies in primary rat hepatocyte culture suggest that prototypic P450 inducers regulate HST-a and ASTIV gene expression directly at the level of the hepatocyte.
culture|culture|17|49|43|49|in primary rat hepatocyte culture|
PMID- 9566755
TI  - Regulation of sulfotransferase gene expression by glucocorticoid hormones and xenobiotics in primary rat hepatocyte culture.  
AB  - In the rat liver, hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase-a (HST-a) and aryl sulfotransferase IV (ASTIV) represent two major rat hepatic sulfotransferases that are important to xenobiotic metabolism. Prototypic CYP1A1 and CYP2B/3A inducers regulate rat hepatic sulfotransferase gene expression although not necessarily in a coordinate direction. It has been previously reported that in vivo treatment with CYP1A1 inducer 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) suppresses rat hepatic HST-a mRNA expression in a dose-dependent manner. Similarly, HST-a and ASTIV mRNA levels become suppressed or induced, respectively, following in vivo treatment with phenobarbital (PB)-like CYP2B/3A inducers or prototypic CYP3A inducers such as glucocorticoid hormones. In the whole animal, sulfotransferase gene expression is modulated by members of the hypothalamic/pituitary-adrenal gonadal hormone axis. However, studies in primary rat hepatocyte culture suggest that prototypic P450 inducers regulate HST-a and ASTIV gene expression directly at the level of the hepatocyte. Glucocorticoid-mediated sulfotransferase expression was compared with the regulation of tyrosine amino transferase (TAT), a gene that is transcriptionally regulated by ligand bound glucocorticoid receptor. It was found that lower doses of dexamethasone (DEX, 10(-7) M) produced concomitant increases in ASTIV and TAT mRNA expression, whereas HST-a mRNA expression continued to rise as the DEX dose was increased through 10(-5) M. When hepatocytes were co-incubated with DEX and antiglucocorticoid/antiprogestin RU-486, DEX-stimulated HST-a mRNA expression was not significantly inhibited by RU-486, but ASTIV and TAT mRNA expression were inhibited to a similar extent. The results suggested that ASTIV, like TAT, is likely regulated by a classical glucocorticoid receptor mediated mechanism, whereas HST-a is probably regulated by glucocorticoids via an alternative mechanism. In contrast to the positive effects of glucocorticoid hormones, HST-a and ASTIV mRNA expression was negatively regulated by xenobiotics such as PB-like CYP2B/3A inducers or aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonist CYP1A1 inducers. Incubation of primary cultured rat hepatocytes with PB or structurally dissimilar PB-like inducers clotrimazole, diphenylhydantoin, heptachlor, gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane or 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl suppressed HST-a and ASTIV mRNA levels. Also, incubation of primary cultured rat hepatocytes with CYP1A1 inducer beta-naphthoflavone or with archetypic AhR agonist, 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-p-dioxin (TCDD) markedly suppressed HST-a and ASTIV mRNA expression. These data suggest that the rat HST-a and ASTIV genes are positively regulated by glucocorticoid hormones and negatively regulated by xenobiotics as a result of molecular and cellular mechanisms that act directly on the hepatocyte.
culture|culture|1043|1075|1069|1075|in primary rat hepatocyte culture|

63|9533820.ab.1|M2
The effects of extracellular Ca2+ ions on purinergic responses were examined in swine tracheal smooth muscle cells (TSMCs) in primary culture.
culture|culture|123|141|134|140|in primary culture.|
PMID- 9533820
TI  - The effect of extracellular Ca2+ on responses to purinoceptor agonists in cultured swine tracheal smooth muscle cells.  
AB  - The effects of extracellular Ca2+ ions on purinergic responses were examined in swine tracheal smooth muscle cells (TSMCs) in primary culture. ATP (1 microM to 1 mM) and alpha, beta-methylene adenosine 5' triphosphate (alpha, beta-Me ATP) (100 microM and 1 mM) concentration-dependently increased [Ca2+]i in the presence and the absence of extracellular Ca2+. Responses to ATP (10 microM to 1 mM) in the presence of extracellular Ca2+ were significantly larger than those in its absence (n=8), whereas those to alpha, beta-Me ATP were not significantly different between the presence (n=7) and the absence (n=8) of extracellular Ca2+. Responses to ATP (1 mM) at extracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]o) of 10 and 5 mM were significantly larger than that at extracellular EGTA concentration ([EGTA]o) of 1 mM (p< 0.01, n=5), whereas the responses to alpha, beta-Me ATP (1 mM) at 10 and 5 mM [Ca2+]o were significantly smaller than that at [EGTA]o of 1 mM (p<0.05, n=5). Increasing [Ca2+]o to 5 mM after the application of either 1 mM ATP (n=4) or 1 mM alpha, beta-Me ATP (n=4) in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ (1 mM [EGTA]o) further increased [Ca2+]i, though the increases in [Ca2+]i by agonists in 1 mM [EGTA]o had been already maximal. Incubating cells for 300 s in 5 mM [Ca2+]o before the application of ATP (1 mM) significantly increased the response to the drug than that obtained by incubating cells for 6 sec in 5 mM [Ca2+]o before the drug application (p< 0.01, n=4). However, alpha, beta-Me ATP (1 mM) induced similar responses by incubating cells for 30 or 300 s in 5 mM [Ca2+]o to that by incubating them for 6 s. These results suggest that the effect of alpha, beta-Me ATP in swine TSMCs in primary culture is mainly through Ca2+ release and that its effect on Ca2+ entry is smaller than other nucleotides.
culture|culture|271|289|282|288|in primary culture.|

64|9542973.ab.6|M2
However, the expression of IGFBP-1 mRNA in embryos cultured alone was very low.
culture|cultured|51|58|51|58|cultured|
PMID- 9542973
TI  - Expression of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) mRNA in embryos and endometrial stromal cells.  
AB  - The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) on the interaction between mouse embryos and endometrial stromal cells in co-culture systems. To explore quantitatively the changes in expression of IGFBP-1 mRNA from endometrial stromal cells cultured alone or co-cultured with embryos, a combination of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Southern blotting followed by a densitometric analysis was used. In co-culture systems, development of embryos was significantly improved and the production of IGFBP-1 from endometrial stromal cells was stimulated by the embryos. Quantitative analysis showed that expression of IGFBP-1 mRNA in endometrial stromal cells co-cultured with embryos was higher on days 3,5 and 8 (1.6-, 4.5- and 2.3-fold respectively) than in endometrial stromal cells cultured alone. In addition, intensity of PCR products for IGFBP-1 mRNA in endometrial stromal cells co-cultured with embryos was higher on day 5 than on days 3 and 8. However, the expression of IGFBP-1 mRNA in embryos cultured alone was very low. In conclusion, co-culture of embryos with endometrial stromal cells improved the development of embryos and may be associated with the production of IGFBP-1 by the co-cultured endometrial stromal cells. A combination of RT-PCR and Southern blotting followed by a densitometric analysis appeared to be a sufficiently quantitative method to determine changes in IGFBP-1 mRNA values.
culture|cultured|1250|1257|1250|1257|cultured|

65|9581681.ab.2|M2
In the present study, "early cultured" (days 2-3 of culture) and "culture-activated" (days 6-7 of culture) rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were analyzed for expression of individual components of the IGF axis.
culture|culture|49|58|52|58|of culture|
PMID- 9581681
TI  - Characterization of the IGF axis components in isolated rat hepatic stellate cells.  
AB  - The insulin-like growth factors I and II (IGF-I, -II) are circulating peptides known to participate in the regulation of metabolism, growth, and cellular differentiation. In the present study, "early cultured" (days 2-3 of culture) and "culture-activated" (days 6-7 of culture) rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were analyzed for expression of individual components of the IGF axis. Northern blot analysis of IGF-I messenger RNA (mRNA) revealed transcripts of 7.5, 4, 2, and 1.0 to 1.5 kb in culture-activated HSCs, while early cultured HSCs did not express IGF-I mRNA. In culture-activated HSCs, an IGF-I secretion of 8.3+/-2.5 ng/10(6) cells per 24 hours was determined radioimmunologically. In media from early cultured HSCs, IGF-I was not detectable. The IGF-I receptor (IGF-I-R) mRNA expression was three-fold higher in early cultured HSCs than in culture-activated HSCs. By immunohistochemistry, a decrease of IGF-I-R expression of HSCs in vivo following CCl4-induced liver damage was noted as well. IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) were detected in conditioned media from HSCs by 125I-IGF-I ligand blotting at apparent molecular masses of 24 and 41 to 45 kd that were immunologically identified as IGFBP-4 and -3, respectively. Synthesis of these IGFBPs increased with time of culture. At neutral pH, no IGFBP proteolysis was observed in conditioned media of early cultured and culture-activated HSCs, whereas at acidic pH, protease activities against IGFBP-3 and -4 were detectable. IGFBP protease activities were completely abolished by inhibitors of aspartyl and cysteine proteases. Addition of 100 nmol/L IGF-I stimulated cell proliferation of early cultured HSCs 5.6+/-1.1- and 4.6+/-0.2-fold as measured by [3H]thymidine and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation, respectively. In culture-activated HSCs, proliferation was increased 1.2+/-0.1-fold in the presence of 100 nmol/L IGF-I in both proliferation assays. It can be concluded that due to a higher expression of the IGF-I-R and lower levels of IGFBPs, early cultured HSCs are more susceptible to the mitogenic actions of IGFs than the culture-activated HSCs. The present data suggest a role for the IGF axis components in the initiation rather than the perpetuation of HSC proliferation during hepatic fibrogenesis.
culture|culture|333|342|336|342|of culture|

66|9543482.ab.4|M2
A co-culture technique has been established to allow long term culturing of type 2 astrocytes which can be grown in large number and isolated at very high purity.
culture|culturing|63|71|63|71|culturing|
PMID- 9543482
TI  - A method for long term culture of murine type 2 astrocytes.  
AB  - Producing cultures of mouse type 2 astrocytes is difficult as these cells have low proliferative ability when isolated as pure cultures. Often standard glial culture techniques yield mixed glial cultures from mouse which contain little or no type 2 glia. This has made studies of the nature and activity of type 2 astrocytes difficult. A co-culture technique has been established to allow long term culturing of type 2 astrocytes which can be grown in large number and isolated at very high purity. This technique uses co-culture of isolated type 2 astrocytes and their progenitor cells with microglia. Using this method, type 2 astrocytes can be grown to high density cultures and maintained in culture for over a year without noticeable change in basic phenotypic characteristics. Aged type 2 astrocytes show increased activity of anti-oxidant enzymes suggesting that these cells have increased resistance to oxidative stress. This method may allow analysis of the development of type 2 astrocytes from progenitor cells and may help to identify the in vivo equivalent of these cells.
culture|culturing|488|496|488|496|culturing|

67|9569365.ab.10|M2
Each experimental culture dish was microscopically scanned for 2 weeks for the presence of tumor cells.
culture|culture|0|29|18|24|Each experimental culture dish|
PMID- 9569365
TI  - An in vitro model fails to demonstrate aerosolization of tumor cells.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: We investigated the ability of pressurized CO2 gas to aerosolize B16 melanoma (B16) tumor cells in an in vitro model. METHODS: The experimental apparatus consisted of an 18.9-L plastic cylindrical vessel and a compliant latex pouch was attached to the top. Two 5-mm ports penetrated the vessel; insufflation and desufflation were carried out through them. A culture dish containing 20 million B16 cells in liquid culture media was placed at the base within the container. In the first experiment, the vessel was insufflated with CO2 gas to a static pressure of 15 or 30 mm Hg with the outflow port closed. After 10 min, the outflow port was opened and the gas was desufflated through a collecting device containing sterile culture medium. In a second experiment, a continuous flow of CO2 through the vessel was maintained after a pressure of 15 or 30 mm Hg was established. A total of 10 L CO2 was cycled through the vessel. In both experiments, 24 determinations were carried out at each pressure.  Each experimental culture dish was microscopically scanned for 2 weeks for the presence of tumor cells. The third and fourth experiments tested for the presence of aerosolized nonviable tumor cells in the expelled gas. Using the model described above, after 10 mins of 30 mm Hg static pressure, the CO2 gas was expelled directly onto a glass slide and cytofixed. Alternately, after 10 mins at 30 mm Hg static pressure, the gas was expelled through a saline-filled Soluset (Abbott Laboratories), centrifuged, and the residue cytofixed onto a glass slide. Each of the five slides per experiment were examined microscopically for the presence of cells. RESULTS: In the first and second experiments, no cells or growth were observed in any of the 96 experimental dishes. In experiments three and four, no cells were detected on any of the slides. CONCLUSIONS: It was not possible with this model to aerosolize tumor cells in a pressurized CO2 environment. Our results suggest that aerosolization of tumor cells is not the mechanism of port site recurrences after laparoscopic surgery for malignant disease.
culture|culture|1111|1140|1129|1135|Each experimental culture dish|

68|9554582.ti.1|M2
Cytological comparison of leaves and stems of Prunus avium L. shoots cultured on a solid medium with agar or gelrite.
culture|cultured|69|76|69|76|cultured|
PMID- 9554582
TI  - Cytological comparison of leaves and stems of Prunus avium L. shoots cultured on a solid medium with agar or gelrite.  
AB  - An axillary proliferating clone of Prunus avium L. was subcultured every four weeks on solid MS medium with agar as the gelling agent. Vitrification (hyperhydricity) of shoots was induced in one four week cycle with the same medium except that agar was replaced by gelrite. During culture on the vitrifying medium, the water content of the shoots progressively increased with a parallel decrease in chlorophyll content. Cytological differences between the leaves and stems of the vitrified and normal shoots were detected by light and electron (both transmission and scanning) microscopy. Leaves of vitrified shoots were characterized by lower number of chloroplasts in the palisade parenchyma and by a defective cuticle. The stems of vitrified shoots had a less developed and lignifled xylem tissue, lacked sclerenchymatic areas and showed hypertrophy of the cortical parenchyma. More intense vacuolar activity with evaginations of the chloroplast envelope into the vacuole was noted in cells of vitrified leaves.
culture|cultured|90|97|90|97|cultured|

69|9604998.ab.10|M2
At confluent 42-MG-BA culture the GFAP-positive cells reached 50 to 70% of all cells.
culture|culture|22|28|22|28|culture|
PMID- 9604998
TI  - Characterization of two new permanent glioma cell lines 8-MG-BA and 42-MG-BA.  
AB  - The establishment and characterization of two permanent glioma cell lines (8-MG-BA and 42-MG-BA) are described. Both cell lines were derived from the human glioblastoma multiforme. Analyzed cells were within the passage 200 to 220. The cells in both cultures showed similar morphology. In majority they consisted from flat polygonal cells. Growth kinetic studies demonstrated a population doubling time of 20 to 24 h in cell line 8-MG-BA and 48 to 54 h in cell line 42-MG-BA. The cell lines showed different hyperdiploid karyotypes. The immunofluorescence staining was performed for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin. In the culture 8-MG-BA only a small amount of cells showed the GFAP-positive staining. At confluent 42-MG-BA culture the GFAP-positive cells reached 50 to 70% of all cells. Vimentin was found in all glioma cells in both cultures.
culture|culture|852|858|852|858|culture|

70|9573816.ab.1|M2
We have extensively modified the published method for the lysis of gram-positive bacteria to isolate chromosomal DNA from only 1 ml of oral streptococcal overnight culture.
culture|culture|132|171|164|170|of oral streptococcal overnight culture.|
PMID- 9573816
TI  - Rapid isolation of chromosomal DNA from oral streptococci and polymerase chain reaction-oriented restriction fragment-length polymorphism analysis for genetic heterogeneity.  
AB  - We have extensively modified the published method for the lysis of gram-positive bacteria to isolate chromosomal DNA from only 1 ml of oral streptococcal overnight culture. Cells were incubated with lysozyme and R Nase A in the presence of polyethylene glycol. After centrifugation, cells were lysed with sodium dodecyl sulfate and proteinase K. Following ethanol precipitation, sodium dodecyl sulfate solution was added to the residue, and the pellet was completely dispersed by incubating at 65 degrees C. The chromosome was purified by extraction over phenol and chloroform. Two regions corresponding to the ribosomal RNA (rrn) operon and the glucosyltransferase gene were amplified using the chromosome from Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus sobrinus by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Genetic heterogeneity was assessed by restriction fragment-length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). The PCR-RFLP analysis readily allowed us to subtype each strain, suggesting that the strategy presented here will provide a useful tool to verify epidemiological studies at the molecular level.
culture|culture|335|374|367|373|of oral streptococcal overnight culture.|

71|9574844.ab.3|M2
Splenocytes from female B6C3F1 mice were cultured with the peptides at concentrations of 0.00001-10 microM.
culture|cultured|41|48|41|48|cultured|
PMID- 9574844
TI  - In vitro exposure to peptidic delta opioid receptor antagonists results in limited immunosuppression.  
AB  - Previous studies by our group have demonstrated that in vitro exposure to delta-opioid receptor agonists results in a significant immunostimulation, whereas in vitro exposure to non-peptidic delta-opioid receptor antagonists results in significant suppression of various immune functions. The present study assessed potential immunomodulation by the peptidic delta-opioid receptor antagonists TIPP, D-TIPP, and ICI 174864 using a panel of in vitro immune function assays. Splenocytes from female B6C3F1 mice were cultured with the peptides at concentrations of 0.00001-10 microM. B cell proliferation was quantified following cellular activation, T cell function was assessed by cytokine production following stimulation with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody, natural immunity was assessed by quantitating natural killer (NK) cell activity following a 24-h exposure, and macrophage function was assessed by quantification of interleukin-6 (IL-6) production. None of the peptides examined significantly affected B cell proliferation. Production of IL-2 by T cells was not consistently affected by exposure to either TIPP or D-TIPP, but was significantly suppressed at 10 microM ICI 174864. Production of IL-4, however, was significantly suppressed by low concentrations of either TIPP or D-TIPP, and by 10 microM ICI 174864. IL-6 production by macrophages was unaffected except for sporadic incidents of enhanced production in cells exposed to ICI 174864. NK cell function exhibited a differential pattern of suppression, with the greatest degree of suppression observed following exposure to TIPP and only slight suppression in cells exposed to either D-TIPP or ICI 174864. These data suggest that peptidic delta-opioid receptor antagonists do not exhibit the same pattern or degree of immunosuppressive activity as the non-peptidic antagonists at equivalent in vitro concentrations.
culture|cultured|644|651|644|651|cultured|

72|9593764.ti.1|M2
The B1-agonist [des-Arg10]-kallidin activates transcription factor NF-kappaB and induces homologous upregulation of the bradykinin B1-receptor in cultured human lung fibroblasts.
culture|cultured|143|177|146|153|in cultured human lung fibroblasts.|
PMID- 9593764
TI  - The B1-agonist [des-Arg10]-kallidin activates transcription factor NF-kappaB and induces homologous upregulation of the bradykinin B1-receptor in cultured human lung fibroblasts.  
AB  - The bradykinin B1-receptor is strongly upregulated under chronic inflammatory conditions. However, the mechanism and reason are not known. Because a better understanding of the mechanism of the upregulation will help in understanding its potential importance in inflammation, we have studied the molecular mechanism of B1-receptor upregulation in cultured human lung fibroblasts (IMR 90) in response to IL-1beta and the B1-agonist [des-Arg10]-kallidin. We show that treatment of human IMR 90 cells by IL-1beta stimulates the expression of both B1-receptor mRNA and protein. The latter was studied by Western blot analysis using antipeptide antibodies directed against the COOH-terminal part of the human B1-receptor. We furthermore report the novel observation that the B1-receptor is upregulated by its own agonist which was completely blocked by the specific B1-antagonist [des-Arg10-Leu9]-kallidin, indicating an upregulation entirely mediated through cell surface B1-receptors. The increased population of B1-receptors was functionally coupled as exemplified by an enhancement of the B1-agonist induced increase in free cytosolic calcium. Upregulation by the B1-agonist was blocked by a specific protein kinase C inhibitor. B1-agonist-induced upregulation was correlated to the induction of transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) which efficiently bound to the NF-kappaB-like sequence located in the promoter region of the human B1-receptor gene. This correlation was further confirmed by reporter gene assays which showed that this NF-kappaB-like sequence, in the B1-receptor promoter context, could contribute to IL-1beta and DLBK-induced B1-receptor transcription activation, and by the effect of NF-kappaB inhibitor pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate which diminished both B1-receptor upregulation and NF-kappaB activation. NF-kappaB is now recognized as a key inflammatory mediator which is activated by the B1-agonist but which is also involved in B1-receptor upregulation.
culture|cultured|164|198|167|174|in cultured human lung fibroblasts.|

73|9614761.ab.3|M2
This may be achieved by crosslinking the collagen substratum on which the cells are cultured.
culture|cultured|84|92|84|91|cultured.|
PMID- 9614761
TI  - Investigation into the tensile properties of collagen/chondroitin-6-sulphate gels: the effect of crosslinking agents and diamines.  
AB  - Artificial skin substitutes based on autologous keratinocytes are being developed for grafting onto burns patients. In order to be used successfully in the clinic, these skin substitutes need to have sufficient strength to allow ease of handling. This may be achieved by crosslinking the collagen substratum on which the cells are cultured. The influence of potential crosslinking agents on the tensile properties of acellular collagen gels has been investigated, including the glycosaminoglycan, chondroitin-6-sulphate (Ch6SO4), the water-soluble carbodiimide crosslinking agents 1-ethyl-3-(3-diaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDAC), and 1,1-carbonyldiimidazole (CDI), and the polyamines, putrescine and diaminohexane. Values for Young's modulus, maximum load, stress, displacement and percentage strain at maximum load were generated by subjecting the samples to a tear propagation test. Incorporation of 20% Ch6SO4 into collagen gels caused a significant increase in the Young's modulus, maximum load and stress at maximum load. Crosslinking treatment with EDAC, CDI or polyamines had little further benefit, and in many cases resulted in a decrease in particular parameters. In terms of mechanical strength, the best crosslinking combination proved to be the combination of CDI and diaminohexane, with results either improved or maintained when compared with the control no treatment variants. However, previous experience suggests that the use of CDI as a crosslinking reagent may inhibit infiltration and proliferation of fibroblasts in the substratum and it may be necessary to reach a compromise to obtain the best combination of biological and mechanical properties for artificial skin substitutes.
culture|cultured|491|499|491|498|cultured.|

74|9603012.ab.4|M2
A total of 1 x 10(5) (n = 5) cells were placed in culture with 2 mg of ALCAP, TCP, HA particles, or 10 micrograms/ml lipopolysaccharides (LPS).
culture|culture|47|56|50|56|in culture|
PMID- 9603012
TI  - Biochemical analysis associated with HL-60 cells incubated with various ceramic materials.  
AB  - The purpose of this experiment was to determine the effect of TCP, ALCAP, and HA ceramic particles on the viability and proliferation rate of HL-60 cells in culture. Previous experiments have suggested that growing cell lines such as macrophages, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells on discs made of TCP, ALCAP, and HA induced immunochemical and morphological changes. The effect of ceramic particles (< 38 um) on HL-60 cells in culture have never been investigated. A total of 1 x 10(5) (n = 5) cells were placed in culture with 2 mg of ALCAP, TCP, HA particles, or 10 micrograms/ml lipopolysaccharides (LPS). At the end of 24, 48, and 96 hours, the cells were evaluated morphologically and then counted. The supernatants were collected and biochemical analysis for LDH and immunochemical analysis for cytokines IL-1 was performed. The data from this investigation revealed the following: (1) At the end of the 24 hour phase, the cell number in wells containing HA and ALCAP particles were lower than the control cells, whereas cells in the presence of TCP were similar to the control. (2) Microscopic evaluation of cells treated with HA showed hydropic change at 24, 48 and 96 hours. (3) At 96 hours, there were no significant changes in cell number between the groups. This phenomenon could be attributed to the depletion of nutrients within the wells or possibly the cells reaching confluence. (4) The ease of ingestion of macrophages to CPB is as follows: TCP > ALCAP > HA. (5) Biochemical analysis of markers for cellular disturbances revealed that there were no significant differences between the different group at any time point (p < 0.05).
culture|culture|633|642|636|642|in culture|

75|9615483.ab.11|M2
The results indicate that full-pKD1 vectors may be preferred for batch culture, while partial-pKD1 vectors are more suitable for long-term (e.g., fed-batch or continuous) culture.
culture|culture|61|78|71|77|for batch culture,|
PMID- 9615483
TI  - Partial-pKD1 plasmids provide enhanced structural stability for heterologous protein production in Kluyveromyces lactis.  
AB  - The stability of pKD1-based vectors in the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis was investigated during short- and long-term culture. The vectors carried an expression/secretion cassette consisting of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SUC2 gene under the control of the S. cerevisiae alpha-factor promoter and leader. The first set of vectors contained the entire pKD1 sequence linearized at either the unique EcoRI or the unique SphI site of the pKD1 plasmid. During long-term sequential batch culture in selective medium with either vector, invertase activity rapidly dropped while the plasmid-bearing population increased from 60% to 100%. This apparently contradictory behavior was due to structural instability. The enzyme restriction patterns of recovered plasmid DNA retained the pKD1 band while the band containing the SUC2 cassette had decreased substantially in size. To overcome this structural instability, a vector carrying the pKD1 replication origin and the cis-acting stability locus (lacking the inverted repeats) was employed in a pKD1+ (but otherwise isogenic) strain. With this plasmid, invertase activity remained constant (for at least 70 generations). While the new vector was significantly more stable, initial invertase activity was substantially lower than that for the vectors containing the full pKD1 sequence. Southern hybridization confirmed that this decrease was primarily due to reduced copy number. The results indicate that full-pKD1 vectors may be preferred for batch culture, while partial-pKD1 vectors are more suitable for long-term (e.g., fed-batch or continuous) culture.
culture|culture|1629|1646|1639|1645|for batch culture,|

76|9613681.ab.14|M2
Moreover, proliferative responses as well as cytokine mRNA expression and protein production should be studied under optimal culture conditions to highlight the often subtle differences.
culture|culture|111|131|125|131|under optimal culture|
PMID- 9613681
TI  - Differential mRNA expression and production of interleukin-4 and interferon-gamma in stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells of house-dust mite-allergic patients.  
AB  - Optimal culture conditions were established for the analysis of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) mRNA expression and protein production, as well as proliferative capacity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). These culture conditions permitted the analysis of differences in the responses of house-dust mite (HDM) allergic patients and healthy controls after polyclonal and allergen-specific stimulation. Proliferative responses were optimal when PBMC were cultured in RPMI, whereas for studying mRNA expression by RT-PCR and protein production by ELISA, PBMC should be stimulated in Yssels's medium. Blood holding period influenced the cytokine mRNA expression and proliferative capacity of primarily the unstimulated cells. It is thus crucial to isolate PBMC as soon as possible, and in any event no later than 7 hours after blood collection. Proliferative responses to Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus-extract were observed in HDM allergic patients (mean stimulation index (SI) = 5.3+/-0.75), but not in non-allergic subjects (mean SI = 2.3+/-0.21). After D. pteronyssinus-specific stimulation, IL-4 mRNA expression was significantly (p = 0.03) increased in HDM-allergic subjects compared to non-allergic subjects. No significant differences were found in IFN-gamma mRNA expression between HDM-allergic and non-allergic subjects. Both IFN-gamma (p = 0.04) and IL-4 (p = 0.06) protein production were increased after D. pteronyssinus-specific stimulation in HDM-allergic subjects compared to non-allergic subjects. Our data suggest activation of both Th1 and Th2-like cells, as well as CD8+ T cells in allergic patients. Furthermore, analysis of possible functional differences in PBMC between allergic and non-allergic patients, necessitates polyclonal and allergen-specific stimulation of PBMC. Moreover, proliferative responses as well as cytokine mRNA expression and protein production should be studied under optimal culture conditions to highlight the often subtle differences.
culture|culture|2135|2155|2149|2155|under optimal culture|

77|9639503.ab.4|M2
Under the conditions used, greater than 75% of the CD34(+) cell population retained the Lin- phenotype after 4 days in culture and at least 30% of these expressed a high level of NGFR (NGFR+) as assessed by fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis.
culture|culture|116|125|119|125|in culture|
PMID- 9639503
TI  - Sustained gene expression in retrovirally transduced, engrafting human hematopoietic stem cells and their lympho-myeloid progeny.  
AB  - Inefficient retroviral-mediated gene transfer to human hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and insufficient gene expression in progeny cells derived from transduced HSC are two major problems associated with HSC-based gene therapy. In this study we evaluated the ability of a murine stem cell virus (MSCV)-based retroviral vector carrying the low-affinity human nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) gene as reporter to maintain gene expression in transduced human hematopoietic cells. CD34(+) cells lacking lineage differentiation markers (CD34(+)Lin-) isolated from human bone marrow and mobilized peripheral blood were transduced using an optimized clinically applicable protocol. Under the conditions used, greater than 75% of the CD34(+) cell population retained the Lin- phenotype after 4 days in culture and at least 30% of these expressed a high level of NGFR (NGFR+) as assessed by fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis. When these CD34(+)Lin-NGFR+ cells sorted 2 days posttransduction were assayed in vitro in clonogenic and long-term stromal cultures, sustained reporter expression was observed in differentiated erythroid and myeloid cells derived from transduced progenitors, and in differentiated B-lineage cells after 6 weeks. Moreover, when these transduced CD34(+)Lin-NGFR+ cells were used to repopulate human bone grafts implanted in severe combined immunodeficient mice, MSCV-directed NGFR expression could be detected on 37% +/- 6% (n = 5) of the donor-type human cells recovered 9 weeks postinjection. These findings suggest potential utility of the MSCV retroviral vector in the development of effective therapies involving gene-modified HSC.
culture|culture|952|961|955|961|in culture|

78|9595444.ab.1|M2
Two subtypes of the endothelin (ET) receptor (ETA and ETB) were studied in cultured ovarian granulosa cells.
culture|cultured|75|82|75|82|cultured|
PMID- 9595444
TI  - Effects of follicle-stimulating hormone on endothelin receptors in cultured rat ovarian granulosa cells.  
AB  - Two subtypes of the endothelin (ET) receptor (ETA and ETB) were studied in cultured ovarian granulosa cells. Immature 21-day-old female Wistar-Imamichi rats were implanted with diethylstilbestrol (DES) pellets for 5 days and granulosa cells were collected by repeated puncturing. Viable cells (2.5 or 5 x 10(5)) were cultured with 50--400 ng/ml of ovine NIH follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in the presence or absence of [125I-Tyr13]ET-1 (50 pM) in 1 ml McCoy's 5a medium for 72 h. FSH gradually increased the [125I-Tyr13]ET-1 binding to granulosa cells, whereas FSH-untreated granulosa cells had no significant changes. The dose of 200 ng/ml of FSH was most effective for [125I-Tyr13]ET-1 binding for 48-h culture, thereafter revealing a plateau. After 48 h of culture with 200 ng/ml of FSH, granulosa cells were further incubated with [125I-Tyr13]ET-1 (10 pM-1 nM) and/or [125I]IRL1620, the selective ETB receptor agonist (10 pM-1 nM) for 2 h for equilibrium study, and then the dissociation constant and the maximal binding capacity between receptors and ligands were determined by saturation curve and Scatchard plot analysis. ETA + ETB, ETB, and ETA (sites/cells) showed a 4.4-, 2.6-, and 7.5-fold increase, respectively. As for steroidogenesis, ET-1 (100 nM) or ET-3 (100 nM) suppressed FSH-induced progesterone and 17 beta-estradiol production. These results indicate that FSH upregulates both ETA and ETB receptors in DES-treated immature rat granulosa cells, with no significant differences between ET-1 and ET-3, and that ET-1 or ET-3 suppresses FSH-induced steroidogenesis. ETs may affect the granulosa cell function through the ETA and ETB receptors, and the increase in amount of ET binding does not reflect ET effects on granulosa cell function. The ET receptor plays an important role in the development of the ovary.
culture|cultured|209|216|209|216|cultured|

79|9633264.ab.1|M1
Urbanization provides unique political, cultural, economic, and educational opportunities for children and families.
culture|cultural|22|58|40|47|unique political, cultural, economic,|
PMID- 9633264
TI  - Children in low-income, urban settings. Interventions to promote mental health and well-being.  
AB  - Urbanization provides unique political, cultural, economic, and educational opportunities for children and families. However, it may also have a negative impact on the mental health and well-being of children and adolescents, particularly when they are exposed to settings with high rates of crime, violence, delinquency, substance use, abuse, and poverty. Psychologists are well suited to intervene in problems associated with urbanization. However, most psychological services have been directed toward children who are experiencing problems, and there has been less focus on population-based or preemptive interventions that prevent problems before they occur. This review presents 11 recommendations for urban interventions that build on individual, family, and community strengths to promote the mental health and well-being of urban children and adolescents.
culture|cultural|146|182|164|171|unique political, cultural, economic,|

80|9622271.ab.8|M2
The co-culture system was created by plating canine vascular SMC and EC on either side of a microporous 13 microm thick polyester membrane insert.
culture|culture|0|20|7|13|The co-culture system|
PMID- 9622271
TI  - Fibroblast growth factor-2-toxin induced cytotoxicity: differential sensitivity of co-cultured vascular smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells.  
AB  - Recombinant FGF-2-SAP is a mitotoxin consisting of the plant-derived ribosome-inactivating toxin saporin (SAP) fused to basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2). FGF-2-SAP targets and kills cells bearing upregulated FGF receptors. In vivo, FGF-2-SAP inhibits smooth muscle cell hyperplasia in models of restenosis. The present study examined the potential for a differential effect of FGF-2-SAP on canine vascular endothelial cells (EC) and smooth muscle cells (SMC) separately as well as in a novel co-culture model. Canine vascular SMC and EC cultures were established separately and made quiescent once cells reached 80% confluence. Following the release from growth arrest, both cell types were treated with FGF-2-SAP, or FGF-2, or SAP alone for 48 h. [3H]TdR incorporation was used to determine the growth response of SMC and EC.  The co-culture system was created by plating canine vascular SMC and EC on either side of a microporous 13 microm thick polyester membrane insert. Both cell types were grown to 80% confluence and independently made quiescent. Following the release from growth arrest, cells were treated with FGF-2-SAP, or FGF-2, or SAP alone. Negative and positive control groups were untreated wells containing phosphate buffered saline and complete growth media, respectively. After 48 h, both [3H]TdR incorporation and total DNA content, by fluorometric measurement, were quantitated in SMC and EC independently. FGF-2-SAP showed a concentration-dependent cytotoxicity in both canine SMC and EC but cytotoxicity for EC required substantially higher concentrations. In co-cultured SMC, FGF-2-SAP significantly decreased both [3H]TdR uptake and total DNA content at 0.5, 5, 50, and 500 ng/ml (0.01-10 nM) compared to positive controls. In co-cultured EC, FGF-2-SAP decreased [3H]TdR uptake at 50 and 500 ng/ml and total DNA content at 500 ng/ml compared to positive controls. Neither SAP alone nor FGF-2 alone showed a significant effect on [3H]TdR uptake or DNA content of either SMC or EC. In this unique co-culture model, which better replicates the relationship between SMC and EC in vivo, we demonstrated a dose-response range of FGF-2-SAP at which both the proliferation and total cell number of SMC, but not EC, is significantly reduced. These data suggest that FGF-2-SAP may have therapeutic utility in inhibiting myointimal hyperplasia in the absence of a deleterious effect on regenerating endothelium following vascular reconstructions.
culture|culture|1010|1030|1017|1023|The co-culture system|

81|9593890.ab.8|M2
This lack of effect might be due to a low level of expression of group II mGlu receptors in cultured striatal neurones.
culture|cultured|89|118|92|99|in cultured striatal neurones.|
PMID- 9593890
TI  - Effect of metabotropic glutamate receptor activation on receptor-mediated cyclic AMP responses in primary cultures of rat striatal neurones.  
AB  - Co-activation of group I metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors and adenosine receptors resulted in an augmented cyclic AMP response in primary cultures of rat striatal neurones. L-glutamate and the selective group I agonist, (S)-dihydroxyphenylglycine (S-DHPG) evoked concentration-dependent potentiations of cyclic AMP accumulation stimulated by the adenosine receptor agonist, 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA), with EC50 values of 3.41+/-0. 39 and 5.69+/-1.64 microM, respectively, and maximal augmentations of approximately 350% at concentrations of 100 microM. The S-DHPG potentiation was inhibited by group I mGlu receptor antagonists and a protein kinase C inhibitor, Ro 31-8220, implicating products of PI hydrolysis in this effect. Furthermore, L-glutamate and S-DHPG stimulated PI hydrolysis in striatal neuronal cultures with similar EC50 values to those observed for the augmentation of NECA cyclic AMP responses (5.19+/-1.18 and 3.78+/-1.42 microM, respectively). In situ hybridization and immunofluorescence techniques indicate that group I mGlu receptor-evoked potentiations are likely to be mediated via mGlu5 receptors, which are expressed at high levels in these cultures. In contrast to cross-chopped slices of neonatal rat striatum, of equivalent age, the group II mGlu receptor agonist, (2S, 2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV) was without effect on NECA- or forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP responses in primary striatal neuronal cultures. This lack of effect might be due to a low level of expression of group II mGlu receptors in cultured striatal neurones. Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.
culture|cultured|1746|1775|1749|1756|in cultured striatal neurones.|

82|9626947.ab.7|M2
Widely varying CMV DNA levels were found in leukocytes, with a positive correlation with the measure of infectivity in the leukocytes by quantitative culture on fibroblasts.
culture|culture|134|156|150|156|by quantitative culture|
PMID- 9626947
TI  - Single tube competitive PCR for quantitation of CMV DNA in the blood of HIV+ and solid organ transplant patients.  
AB  - Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in transplant and HIV-infected patients. However, CMV can also cause asymptomatic infection. An elevated blood viral load as assessed by various methods appears to be a predictor for symptomatic infections, and can be used to identify patients at the highest risk of developing CMV disease. We developed a single tube competitive quantitative PCR assay for CMV DNA, using as a competitor a plasmid carrying the target sequence for amplification with an internal deletion. The analysis of data from repeated extractions and amplifications of samples showed that the coefficient of variation of the assay was typically less than 20%. Clinical samples from 14 HIV-infected and 13 solid organ transplant patients were analyzed. Widely varying CMV DNA levels were found in leukocytes, with a positive correlation with the measure of infectivity in the leukocytes by quantitative culture on fibroblasts. The highest CMV DNA content in leukocytes was found in two patients with presumptive CMV disease. In HIV patients, the amount of DNA in leukocytes was much larger than in solid organ transplant recipients, when standardized for infectivity. Although based on a very limited number of patients, this observation probably points to a difference in the biology of CMV infection in these two categories of susceptible individuals. CMV DNA was also found in the plasma of some of the patients with a high CMV DNA leukocyte load. The present test should be useful for identifying patients at high risk of developing CMV disease, for monitoring therapeutic efficacy of antiviral regimens and to improve the understanding the pathogenesis of CMV infection.
culture|culture|1077|1099|1093|1099|by quantitative culture|

83|9681513.ab.10|M2
Corpora lutea from day-15 pregnant rats were cultured in the presence of different doses of progesterone; the synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone; 17beta-estradiol; and PRL.
culture|cultured|45|52|45|52|cultured|
PMID- 9681513
TI  - The expression of interleukin-6 in the pregnant rat corpus luteum and its regulation by progesterone and glucocorticoid.  
AB  - Interleukin (IL)-6, a multifunctional cytokine originally described as a T cell-derived factor, is also produced by different cell types, and it influences a wide variety of physiological and pathophysiological processes. Recent studies further suggest that IL-6 has a role in down-regulating hormone production by endocrine organs and can negatively affect the steroidogenic capacity of both ovaries and testes. Thus, the aims of this investigation were to examine whether IL-6 plays a role in luteolysis and, more specifically, to determine whether luteal cells express the IL-6 gene, whether this expression is developmentally and hormonally regulated in pregnancy, and whether the corpus luteum could be a target for IL-6 action. Using semiquantitative RT-PCR, messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding both components of the IL-6 receptor [the ligand-binding subunit (IL-6 R) and the IL-6 R-associated signal transducer (gp130)] were found to be highly expressed in corpora lutea throughout pregnancy. In contrast, IL-6 mRNA expression was barely detectable from day 4 through the end of pregnancy, whereas a sharp and abrupt expression of IL-6 mRNA occurred immediately after parturition. Although the corpus luteum does not express IL-6 mRNA during most of pregnancy, it could be induced to express this gene with an in vivo injection of the bacterial endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide. In addition, when corpora lutea from day-15 pregnant rats were isolated and maintained in culture, IL-6 mRNA that was undetectable at 0 h increased in a time-related manner and reached significant levels after 4 h of incubation, followed by a similar increase in IL-6 protein secreted in the culture media. Isolation of the small and large luteal cells by elutriation indicated that both cell populations can secrete IL-6 in culture. The apparent ability of luteal cells to spontaneously express IL-6 in vitro, together with the lack of IL-6 expression during most of pregnancy, led us to examine whether the IL-6 gene is silenced throughout pregnancy by luteotropic hormones. Corpora lutea from day-15 pregnant rats were cultured in the presence of different doses of progesterone; the synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone; 17beta-estradiol; and PRL. Progesterone and dexamethasone markedly inhibited IL-6 mRNA expression, whereas 17beta-estradiol had a minimal inhibitory effect, and PRL did not affect IL-6 mRNA expression. In summary, results of this investigation have revealed that the rat corpus luteum expresses the IL-6 receptor system and that luteal cells are able to secrete IL-6. However, IL-6 gene expression is silenced during most of pregnancy, probably by the high levels of progesterone locally produced in the corpus luteum. The salient finding that progesterone and glucocorticoid strongly inhibit the expression of IL-6 in the corpus luteum suggests that one important luteotropic role of progesterone and glucocorticoids could be to prevent the expression of IL-6, which might have a deleterious effect on luteal function.
culture|cultured|2250|2257|2250|2257|cultured|

84|9665799.ti.1|M2
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and EGF promote cord-like structures that indicate terminal differentiation of fetal hepatocytes in primary culture.
culture|culture|140|158|151|157|in primary culture.|
PMID- 9665799
TI  - Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and EGF promote cord-like structures that indicate terminal differentiation of fetal hepatocytes in primary culture.  
AB  - When fetal hepatocytes were cultured in the presence of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta 1) and epidermal growth factor (EGF), some morphological changes were observed. Under these conditions, cells migrated, from typical clusters that hepatocytes adopt in culture, to form elongated, cord-like structures similar to the hepatic acinus organization. Immunocytochemical analysis of these cells revealed high levels of albumin and cytokeratin 18, phenotypic markers of parenchymal hepatocytes. Although some of the cells in the cord-like structures presented a cortical ring distribution of F-actin filaments, the cord also presented thick peripheral bundles and cells of the tips showed thin stress fibers oriented to the cell edges, typical of a migratory phenotype. In addition to these morphological effects, flow cytometric analysis of the cells revealed a larger size, granularity and intracellular lipid content (as a parameter related to liver metabolic function), in TGF-beta + EGF-treated hepatocytes. Western blot analysis of the albumin levels revealed that both expression and secretion of albumin were increased in EGF + TGF-beta-treated cells. Finally, all these changes were coincident with an enhancement in the DNA-binding activity for hepatocyte nuclear factors (HNF1, HNF3, and HNF4), as revealed in gel-shift experiments with nuclear extracts. We conclude that a cooperative action between TGF-beta and EGF might modulate terminal maturation of fetal hepatocytes.
culture|culture|161|179|172|178|in primary culture.|

85|9582223.ti.1|M2
Effects of quinine on the excitability and voltage-dependent currents of isolated spiral ganglion neurons in culture.
culture|culture|106|116|109|115|in culture.|
PMID- 9582223
TI  - Effects of quinine on the excitability and voltage-dependent currents of isolated spiral ganglion neurons in culture.  
AB  - This work examined how quinine, a drug that induces both hearing loss and tinnitus, interfered with the excitability of spiral ganglion (SG) neurons in cultures. The membrane potential changes and the modification of the action-potential waveform induced by quinine were studied in SG neurons under current clamp. The effects of the drug on voltage-dependent currents in SG neurons were also investigated by the voltage-clamp method. Quinine did not appreciably affect either resting membrane potentials or input resistance at rest. However, action potentials fired by SG neurons were significantly broadened by the presence of quinine. With higher concentrations of quinine (>20 microM), the amplitude of action potentials was also reduced. Voltage-clamp results demonstrated that quinine primarily blocked the whole cell potassium currents (IK) in a voltage-dependent manner. Up to 100 microM of quinine did not appreciably block IK evoked by a test pulse to -35 mV. In contrast, IK was significantly reduced with more positive test pulses, e.g., the concentration needed to obtain 50% inhibition (IC50) was 8 microM for a test pulse to 65 mV. At higher concentrations (>20 microM), quinine also reduced the size of sodium currents (INa) in a use-dependent manner, while leaving calcium currents (ICa) relatively unaffected. Compared with the potency of quinine's effects on other targets in the inner ear, the relatively low IC50 and the voltage-dependent nature of quinine inhibition on IK suggested that its modulation of the waveform and threshold of action potentials of SG neurons probably was primarily responsible for its ototoxic effects. From the point of view of how neural signaling process is affected by the drug, quinine-induced tinnitus may be explained by its broadening of action potentials while the drug's inhibition on INa may result in hearing loss by making the conversion from excitatory postsynaptic potentials to the generation of action potentials more difficult.
culture|culture|127|137|130|136|in culture.|

86|9655651.ab.4|M2
In addition, there are some reports indicating that angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonists inhibit directly hypertrophy or proliferation of cultured cardiac myocytes and nonmyocytes (fibroblast), cultured mesangial cells and cultured vascular smooth muscle cells, which were stimulated by angiotensin II.
culture|cultured|135|162|138|145|of cultured cardiac myocytes|
PMID- 9655651
TI  - Angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonism and protection against cardiovascular end-organ damage.  
AB  - This review describes how angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonists (eg, candesartan cilexetil, losartan) effectively protect against end-organ damage including stroke, cardiac hypertrophy, renal dysfunction, glomerulosclerosis, and/or vascular hypertrophy in the models of stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP), SHR, DOCA/salt hypertensive rats, Dahl hypertensive rats and/or 5/6 nephrectomised rats. Particularly in SHRSP and DOCA/salt hypertensive rats, candesartan cilexetil markedly reduced the incidence of stroke and renal injury even at doses which had no effect on blood pressure (BP), suggesting that the tissue protective effects of angiotensin AT1 antagonists are not attributable simply to the normalisation of BP. In the heart, kidney and vascular tissues of SHRSP and the kidney of DOCA/salt hypertensive rats, the mRNA levels for transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and extracellular matrix components (fibronectin, collagen type I, III and IV and laminin) were increased, and the increases of the gene expression were inhibited by treatment with candesartan cilexetil. In addition, there are some reports indicating that angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonists inhibit directly hypertrophy or proliferation of cultured cardiac myocytes and nonmyocytes (fibroblast), cultured mesangial cells and cultured vascular smooth muscle cells, which were stimulated by angiotensin II. These in vitro and in vivo findings suggest that local tissue AT1 receptor stimulation, being accompanied by the increased gene expression of TGF-beta1 and extracellular matrix components may partially contribute to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular end-organ damage.
culture|cultured|1355|1382|1358|1365|of cultured cardiac myocytes|

87|9710176.ab.7|M1
CONCLUSION: Among elderly stroke patients, men received more support from family members in ADL performance and had less active lifestyles than did women, possibly because of cultural gender roles.
culture|cultural|164|196|175|182|because of cultural gender roles.|
PMID- 9710176
TI  - Gender differences in disability and lifestyle among community-dwelling elderly stroke patients in Kitakyushu, Japan.  
AB  - OBJECTIVE: To examine whether there were differences in lifestyle and performance of activities of daily living (ADL) between men and women in a population of elderly stroke patients. DESIGN: Case-comparison study. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Sixty-eight men and 34 women who were elderly stroke patients living in the community with a spouse or family members were evaluated with the self-rating Barthel Index (SRBI), Frenchay Activities Index (FAI), Stroke Impairment Assessment Set (SIAS), Functional Independence Measure (FIM), and a pedometer for physical activity. Control subjects, 30 men and 30 women, were assessed with the FAI. RESULTS: Among the stroke subjects, there were no significant differences in age, SRBI, motor score of the SIAS, or physical activity between men and women; however, men had significantly lower values than did women for three FIM items and the total FIM score and for 6 FAI items and the total FAI score. Among control subjects, men had significantly lower values than did women for 7 FAI items and the total FAI score (Tukey's test, p < .05). CONCLUSION: Among elderly stroke patients, men received more support from family members in ADL performance and had less active lifestyles than did women, possibly because of cultural gender roles.
culture|cultural|1387|1419|1398|1405|because of cultural gender roles.|

88|9723994.ab.4|M2
Experiments were conducted to determine whether abnormal disk morphogenesis in detached, cultured retinas is due to the presence of serum in the microenvironment of the rod outer segments.
culture|cultured|76|104|89|96|in detached, cultured retinas|
PMID- 9723994
TI  - Exposure of rod outer segments to serum is not responsible for abnormal disk membrane morphogenesis in a model of retinal detachment.  
AB  - PURPOSE: The sclerad surface of the retina is exposed to serum proteins in several retinal pathologies that result in degeneration of photoreceptor outer segments. Abnormal disk membrane morphogenesis is observed in rod photoreceptors of detached Xenopus retinas when they are cultured in serum-containing medium. Retinas that remain attached to the pigment epithelium layer produce normal disks. Experiments were conducted to determine whether abnormal disk morphogenesis in detached, cultured retinas is due to the presence of serum in the microenvironment of the rod outer segments. METHODS: Detached retinas and retinas attached to the retinal pigment epithelium in eyecups were cultured in either serum-containing or serum-free medium, and the morphology of the disk lamellae formed in vitro retinas was evaluated. Using protein extraction and immunochemical methods, the presence of albumin in the microenvironment of the outer segments was confirmed for retinas incubated in serum-containing medium. RESULTS: There were no obvious differences in the abnormal disk-like lamellae formed in detached retinas when the retinas were incubated either in serum-containing or in serum-free culture medium. Proteins extracted from detached retinas cultured in serum-containing medium showed a prominent band at 63 kDa that co-localized primarily with outer segment-enriched fractions. Immunolabeling showed that the band was serum albumin. CONCLUSIONS: Rod cells in detached retinas formed abnormal disk-like lamellar membranes in either serum-containing or serum-free medium. This suggests that exposing outer segments to serum albumin or other serum components is not responsible for the abnormal in vitro disk membrane morphogenesis seen in detached retinas.
culture|cultured|636|664|649|656|in detached, cultured retinas|

89|9646100.ab.6|M2
C. pneumoniae could be detected with different techniques (PCR, immunohistology, electromicroscopy, culture) in a high percentage in atheromas from different sites.
culture|culture|100|106|100|106|culture|
PMID- 9646100
TI  - [Arteriosclerosis as a sequela of chronic Chlamydia pneumoniae infection]  
AB  - In the last years several new data allow a controversial but convincing interpretation of the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis (arteriosclerosis). Atherosclerosis can be apparently the result of ultrachronic persistent infection by Chlamydia pneumoniae and not the result of different risk factors. The main arguments for the chlamydial genesis are: 1. Correlation of coronary heart disease and other atherosclerotic disease with antibodies against C. pneumoniae. 2. C. pneumoniae could be detected with different techniques (PCR, immunohistology, electromicroscopy, culture) in a high percentage in atheromas from different sites. 3. Three international studies with macrolides in coronary heart disease were successful. 4. The target cells of atherosclerosis (endothelia, macrophages, muscle cells) can be infected by C. pneumoniae in vitro. 5. Positive animal experiments. The Koch-Henle criteria for the proof of the etiology are largely fulfilled--even if there are doubts about the validity of these criteria in chronic local infections. A number of unexplainable aspect of atherosclerosis can be seen in a new light. The higher incidence of coronary heart disease in young males has a parallel in the remarkable androtropism of many bacterial diseases (pneumococcal pneumonia, tuberculosis). The reduction of incidence of atherosclerotic diseases since 1965 can be explained by the much higher intake of doxycyclin and macrolides. The low incidence of coronary heart disease in France--sometimes regarded as an effect of red wine--can be explained as a result of a much higher use of antichlamydial antibiotics. The increase of inflammatory parameters (C-reactive protein, fibrinogen, leucocytes) before acute coronary infarction are not risk factors but signs of an active chronic infection. The interpretation is possible, that atherogenic changes in lipids like increase of LDL and decrease of HDL are not risk factors but consequence of chronic arterial infection by chlamydia. The low incidence of atherosclerosis in the tropics--despite high frequency of chlamydial infection--is difficult to explain. Vascular infection can be related with the age of the patient at the primary infection. With low hygiene, intestinal primary infections in early childhood can be possible. Arterial infection would be thus a result of a primary infection in adolescence ("yet another poliomyelitis story"). There are good arguments for the thesis that C. pneumoniae is the primary cause of atherosclerosis and not a secondary invader. The consequence, nevertheless, is similar: Antibiotics get a key role. The macrolides roxithromycin, azithromycin, clarithromycin and the tetracyclin doxycyclin fulfill the criteria as potential antichlamydial agents. In general a longer treatment (6 to 8 to 12 weeks) seems advisable. It is necessary to start international studies with antibiotics in coronary infarction and other clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis. The relevant antibiotics licensed for chlamydial infections are cheap and safe. Despite of the urgent need for controlled studies, it seems already justified to treat high-risk patients with antibiotics. Meticulous protocols and long-term control of patients are necessary to evaluate the therapeutic effects. Preventive studies in patients without clinical manifestation of atherosclerosis are urgently needed. The risks of resistance or side effects are neglectable, but the organisation of such studies would be very difficult.
culture|culture|669|675|669|675|culture|

90|9665572.ab.7|M1
This medical problem bears close resemblance to other specific culture-bound syndromes such as ataques de nervios or possession syndromes and gives clues to ways of dealing with psychogenic expressions of cultural stress.
culture|cultural|202|220|205|212|of cultural stress.|
PMID- 9665572
TI  - An epidemic of collective conversion and dissociation disorder in an indigenous group of Colombia: its relation to cultural change.  
AB  - We describe a collective episode of psychogenic illness in an indigenous group (Embera) of Colombia, geographically isolated from its native homeland and surrounded by non-indigenous settlers. The condition, which affected three young adult men and six adolescent women, was attributed by them to a spell (maleficio). It was designated as ataques de locura (madness attacks) according to their traditional medical system; and as a conversive disorder with dissociative features by psychiatrists. Different therapeutic approaches, including antipsychotic medication, religious healers and traditional herbal remedies were unsuccessful. Contact with shamans of the same ethnic origin, on the other hand, proved to be an effective way of dealing with the symptoms. We interpret the situation as an expression of psychosocial stress secondary to cultural change. This medical problem bears close resemblance to other specific culture-bound syndromes such as ataques de nervios or possession syndromes and gives clues to ways of dealing with psychogenic expressions of cultural stress.
culture|cultural|1222|1240|1225|1232|of cultural stress.|

91|9728915.ab.7|M2
Activation of MAP kinases and in vitro survival of cultured trkB(shc/shc) neurons were reduced in response to both neurotrophins, with NT4 being less potent than BDNF, suggesting differential activation of TrkB by the two ligands.
culture|cultured|48|63|51|58|of cultured trkB|
PMID- 9728915
TI  - Point mutation in trkB causes loss of NT4-dependent neurons without major effects on diverse BDNF responses.  
AB  - Neurotrophins are a family of soluble ligands that promote the survival and differentiation of peripheral and central neurons and regulate synaptic function. The two neurotrophins, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT4), bind and activate a single high-affinity receptor, TrkB. Experiments in cell culture have revealed that an intact Shc adaptor binding site on TrkB and subsequent activation of the Ras/MAPK pathway are important for neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth. To elucidate the intracellular signaling pathways that mediate the diverse effects of BDNF and NT4 in vivo, we have mutated in the mouse germline the Shc binding site in the trkB gene. This trkB(shc) mutation revealed distinctive responses to BDNF and NT4. While nearly all NT4-dependent sensory neurons were lost in trkB(shc/shc) mutant mice, BDNF-dependent neurons were only modestly affected. Activation of MAP kinases and in vitro survival of cultured trkB(shc/shc) neurons were reduced in response to both neurotrophins, with NT4 being less potent than BDNF, suggesting differential activation of TrkB by the two ligands. Moreover, while the Ras/MAPK pathway is required for in vitro differentiation of neuronal cells, trkB(shc/shc) mutant mice do not show any defects in BDNF-dependent differentiation of CNS neurons or in the function of sensory neurons that mediate innocuous touch.
culture|cultured|1086|1101|1089|1096|of cultured trkB|

92|9650618.ab.7|M2
CTL lines with specific cytolytic activity could be propagated in long-term culture.
culture|culture|63|83|76|82|in long-term culture.|
PMID- 9650618
TI  - Human melanoma cells transfected with the B7-2 co-stimulatory molecule induce tumor-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes in vitro.  
AB  - Neoplastic cells express tumor-associated antigens, but tumor rejection seldom occurs in vivo. The absence of an effective immune response may be explained by the inability of tumor cells to deliver co-stimulatory signals. Indeed, transfection of either B7-1 or B7-2 co-stimulatory molecules into mouse tumor cells enhances antitumor immune responses. In this study, we stably transfected human melanoma cells with the cDNA encoding the B7-2 molecule to evaluate in vitro: (i) the induction of anti-melanoma cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) by stimulation of CD8+ T cells, purified from healthy donors and a melanoma patient, with B7-2 transfected allogeneic HLA-matched melanoma cells; (ii) the tumor specificity and the HLA restriction of the induced CTL; and (iii) the feasibility to propagate long-term antimelanoma CTL lines. We found that B7-2 transfected, but not untransfected or mock-transfected, melanoma cells activated MHC-class I-restricted, melanoma-specific CD8+ CTL from healthy donors. More importantly, CD8+ tumor-associated lymphocytes, purified from a tumor-invaded lymph node of a melanoma patient and stimulated with B7-2-transfected melanoma cells, acquired a strong reactivity toward the autologous tumor. CTL lines with specific cytolytic activity could be propagated in long-term culture. These results indicate that: (i) the expression of the B7-2 molecule into human melanoma cells makes them immunogenic and able to act as antigen-presenting cells and (ii) purified CD8+ cells, stimulated with B7-2+ allogeneic HLA-matched melanoma cells, preferentially recognize melanoma-specific rather than allogeneic antigens. This study may have clinical implications for passive and/or active immunotherapy in melanoma patients.
culture|culture|1451|1471|1464|1470|in long-term culture.|

93|9705410.ab.8|M2
B. burgdorferi was cultured from 79% of the erythema migrans specimens but not from any of the ACA lesions.
culture|cultured|19|26|19|26|cultured|
PMID- 9705410
TI  - Diagnostic value of PCR for detection of Borrelia burgdorferi in skin biopsy and urine samples from patients with skin borreliosis.  
AB  - Skin biopsies of 36 patients with erythema migrans and acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans (ACA) before therapy and those of 8 patients after therapy were examined for Borrelia burgdorferi DNA by PCR. Skin biopsies of 27 patients with dermatological diseases other than Lyme borreliosis and those of 10 healthy persons were examined as controls. Two different primer sets targeting 23S rRNA (PCR I) and 66-kDa protein (PCR II) genes were used. PCR was performed with freshly frozen tissue (FFT) and paraffin-embedded tissue (PET). For FFT specimens of erythema migrans, 73% were positive by PCR I, 79% were positive by PCR II, and 88% were positive by combining PCR I and II. For PET specimens, PCR was less sensitive (PCR I, 44%; PCR II, 52%). For FFT specimens of ACA, PCR I was positive for two of five patients and PCR II was positive for four of five patients. B. burgdorferi was cultured from 79% of the erythema migrans specimens but not from any of the ACA lesions. Elevated B. burgdorferi antibodies were detected in sera of 74% of erythema migrans patients and 100% of ACA patients. All urine samples were negative by PCR II, whereas PCR I was positive for 27%. However, hybridization of these amplicons was negative. Sequencing of three amplicons identified nonborrelial DNA. In conclusion, urine PCR is not suitable for the diagnosis of skin borreliosis. A combination of two different primer sets achieves high sensitivity with skin biopsies. In early erythema migrans infection, culture and PCR are more sensitive than serology.
culture|cultured|1046|1053|1046|1053|cultured|

94|9732923.ti.1|M2
Biopsy forceps disinfection technique does not influence Helicobacter pylori culture [see comments].
culture|culture|57|85|77|83|Helicobacter pylori culture [|
PMID- 9732923
TI  - Biopsy forceps disinfection technique does not influence Helicobacter pylori culture [see comments]  
AB  - OBJECTIVES: Culturing Helicobacter pylori (Hp) has a low sensitivity rate, and is affected by factors such as the number of biopsies, transport, and culture conditions. Hp detection is also influenced by omeprazole, antibiotics, bismuth salts, or benzocaine use. Disinfection procedures based on glutaraldehyde are highly effective in eliminating any Hp contamination of endoscopic equipment. However, the possibility that some residual glutaraldehyde present in biopsy forceps after decontamination could affect Hp viability has not yet been investigated. METHODS: Antral specimens from 25 patients with active gastric or duodenal ulcer obtained with three forceps (sterilized with ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, or glutaraldehyde-phenolate) were streaked on appropriate media, and results of culture evaluated. RESULTS: Helicobacter pylori was isolated in 17 patients. Positivity of culture was independent of the way the forceps were sterilized, and the number of colonies (mean +/- SD) was similar for the three types of forceps (475 +/- 312, 533 +/- 242, and 550 +/- 225 colony-forming units [CFUs] for ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and glutaraldehyde-phenolate, respectively). Moreover, the incubation time since isolation was also similar (6.0 +/- 1.3, 5.8 +/- 1.2, and 5.7 +/- 1.2 days for ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and glutaraldehyde-phenolate disinfected forceps, respectively). CONCLUSION: The use of glutaraldehyde to sterilize biopsy forceps is not responsible for the false-negative results of Hp culture.
culture|culture|78|106|98|104|Helicobacter pylori culture [|

95|9660311.ab.7|M2
These combined results demonstrate that low ethanol transcriptionally upregulates both t-PA and u-PA gene expression in cultured HUVECs and provides a molecular basis for the ethanol-induced increase in EC-mediated fibrinolytic activity that may underlie and contribute, in part, to the cardioprotective benefit associated with moderate alcohol consumption.
culture|cultured|117|134|120|127|in cultured HUVECs|
PMID- 9660311
TI  - Ethanol transcriptionally upregulates t-PA and u-PA gene expression in cultured human endothelial cells.  
AB  - Epidemiological studies have suggested that moderate alcohol consumption reduces the risk of cardiovascular mortality. This cardioprotective benefit may be mediated, in part, by promoting fibrinolysis through changes in fibrinolytic components and/or activity, resulting in the decreased risk for thrombosis, coronary artery disease, and eventual myocardial infarction. Endothelial cells (ECs) play a pivotal role in maintaining normal hemostasis by regulating fibrinolysis through the synthesis of plasminogen activators (PAs), tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA). The studies described herein were conducted to determine whether a single brief preincubation (1 hr, 37 degrees C) of cultured human umbilical vein ECs (HUVECs) with low ethanol (0.1%, v/v), will upregulate t-PA and/or u-PA gene expression at the transcriptional level, using a combination of nuclear transcription run-on assays and transient transfections of cultured HUVECs with the pPA/luc promoter constructs. Nuclear run-on assays showed approximately 2- to 3-fold and approximately 6- to 7-fold increase in the transcription of new t-PA and u-PA mRNAs, respectively. In addition, transient transfections of cultured HUVECs with the pt-PA363/luc and pu-PA236/luc promoter constructs, using lipofectamine, demonstrated approximately 4- to 6-fold and approximately 6- to 9-fold increase in luciferase activity for t-PA and u-PA, respectively. These combined results demonstrate that low ethanol transcriptionally upregulates both t-PA and u-PA gene expression in cultured HUVECs and provides a molecular basis for the ethanol-induced increase in EC-mediated fibrinolytic activity that may underlie and contribute, in part, to the cardioprotective benefit associated with moderate alcohol consumption.
culture|cultured|1717|1734|1720|1727|in cultured HUVECs|

96|9665992.ab.7|M2
However, the PCR test failed to detect the bacterial rRNA gene in one CSF sample, the culture of which yielded Listeria monocytogenes.
culture|culture|82|92|86|92|the culture|
PMID- 9665992
TI  - Diagnosis of meningococcal meningitis by broad-range bacterial PCR with cerebrospinal fluid.  
AB  - We used broad-range bacterial PCR combined with DNA sequencing to examine prospectively cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from patients with suspected meningitis. Fifty-six CSF samples from 46 patients were studied during the year 1995. Genes coding for bacterial 16S and/or 23S rRNA genes could be amplified from the CSF samples from five patients with a clinical picture consistent with acute bacterial meningitis. For these patients, the sequenced PCR product shared 98.3 to 100% homology with the Neisseria meningitidis sequence. For one patient, the diagnosis was initially made by PCR alone. Of the remaining 51 CSF samples, for 50 (98.0%) samples the negative PCR findings were in accordance with the negative findings by bacterial culture and Gram staining, as well as with the eventual clinical diagnosis for the patient. However, the PCR test failed to detect the bacterial rRNA gene in one CSF sample, the culture of which yielded Listeria monocytogenes. These results invite new research efforts to be focused on the application of PCR with broad-range bacterial primers to improve the etiologic diagnosis of bacterial meningitis. In a clinical setting, Gram staining and bacterial culture still remain the cornerstones of diagnosis.
culture|culture|1035|1045|1039|1045|the culture|

97|9746762.ab.5|M2
Cultured Hodgkin's disease-derived (HD) cell lines, however, were found to express few MHC class II molecules carrying CLIP peptides on the cell surface and were shown to generate sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)-stable MHC class II alphabeta dimers.
culture|cultured|0|33|0|7|Cultured Hodgkin's disease-derived|
PMID- 9746762
TI  - Deficient major histocompatibility complex class II antigen presentation in a subset of Hodgkin's disease tumor cells.  
AB  - Hodgkin's disease is a common malignancy of the lymphoid system. Although the scarce Hodgkin and Reed-Sternberg (HRS) tumor cells in involved tissue synthesize major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II and costimulatory molecules such as CD40 or CD86, it is unclear whether these tumor cells are operational antigen-presenting cells (APC). We developed an immunofluorescence-based assay to determine the number of MHC class II molecules present on the surface of single living HRS cells. We found that in fresh Hodgkin's disease lymph node biopsies, a subset of HRS cells express a substantial number of surface MHC class II molecules that are occupied by MHC class II-associated invariant chain peptides (CLIP), indicating deficient loading of MHC class II molecules with antigenic peptides.  Cultured Hodgkin's disease-derived (HD) cell lines, however, were found to express few MHC class II molecules carrying CLIP peptides on the cell surface and were shown to generate sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)-stable MHC class II alphabeta dimers. In addition to showing deficient MHC class II antigen presentation in a subset of HRS cells, our results show that the widely used HD-cell lines are not ideal in vitro models for the disease. The disruption of MHC class II-restricted antigen presentation in HRS cells could represent a key mechanism by which these tumor cells escape immune surveillance.
culture|cultured|948|981|948|955|Cultured Hodgkin's disease-derived|

98|9759803.ab.11|M2
Patient sera recognized allergenic components shared by culture filtrates and cellular extracts but with higher frequent and greater intensity in culture filtrates.
culture|culture|53|72|56|62|by culture filtrates|
PMID- 9759803
TI  - IgE-sensitization to cellular and culture filtrates of fungal extracts in patients with atopic dermatitis.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: Patients with atopic dermatitis may experience exacerbations of eczema triggered by various inflammatory stimuli. One mechanism may be IgE-mediated reactions to dermatophytes since these patients are more likely to acquire skin infections with dermatophytes and may become sensitized. OBJECTIVE: This study investigates IgE-sensitization to fungi in patients with atopic dermatitis and compares the biologic activity of culture filtrates and cellular fungal extracts. The following allergen extracts were provided as culture filtrates and cellular extracts: Candida albicans, Fusarium moniliforme, and Penicillium notatum. In addition, Pityrosporum ovale and Trichophyton rubrum cultures were included in the test panel. METHODS: Fifteen patients with clinical findings suggesting dermatophytosis and 11 controls were selected. Each subject was tested by leukocyte histamine release and skin prick test to each fungal extract. The extracts were separated and reduced by sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and analyzed by IgE-immunoblotting with sera from all study subjects. RESULTS: Fourteen patients (93%) reacted to one or several fungal extracts by releasing histamine when challenged in vitro. By immunoblotting experiments, patient sera showed binding to a wide range of components in all extracts. Patient sera recognized allergenic components shared by culture filtrates and cellular extracts but with higher frequent and greater intensity in culture filtrates. Although culture filtrates generated more frequent and potent IgE-reactions than the cellular extracts, the difference was not statistically significant. Biologic potency was similar when evaluated by skin prick tests and leukocyte histamine release. CONCLUSION: Patients with atopic dermatitis may develop specific IgE-antibodies to a number of fungi as demonstrated by IgE-immunoblotting. In selected patients, fungi may trigger an IgE-mediated reaction that may contribute to the exacerbation of eczema. Approximately, one-half of the patients, however, produced IgE-antibodies to fungal (glyco)proteins without a significant histamine release or skin test response possibly because of nonspecific interaction with carbohydrate moieties on IgE and poor biologic activity of IgE antibodies directed to cross-reactive carbohydrate determinants of fungal glycoproteins. This warrants caution when interpreting clinical relevance of serologic measurements of fungal IgE-antibodies.
culture|culture|1528|1547|1531|1537|by culture filtrates|

99|9685519.ab.1|M2
Laminin, the major basement membrane glycoprotein of the blood vessel, inducing many cellular responses, inhibited the differentiation of osteoclasts in a rat bone marrow culture system when immobilized on the surface of the culture wells, showing that laminin acts as a negative regulator of osteoclast differentiation in a nonsolubilized form.
culture|culture|218|238|225|231|of the culture wells,|
PMID- 9685519
TI  - Laminin, a major basement membrane component of the blood vessel, as a negative regulator of osteoclastogenesis.  
AB  - Laminin, the major basement membrane glycoprotein of the blood vessel, inducing many cellular responses, inhibited the differentiation of osteoclasts in a rat bone marrow culture system when immobilized on the surface of the culture wells, showing that laminin acts as a negative regulator of osteoclast differentiation in a nonsolubilized form. Laminin inhibited the process of preosteoclast formation from early progenitor cells in bone marrow. This laminin-mediated inhibition of osteoclastogenesis was blocked by the addition of laminin fragment YIGSR, indicating that the inhibitory effect of laminin was mediated via laminin receptors. This finding suggests a significant role of basement membrane laminin of the blood vessels as a negative regulator of osteoclastogenesis.
culture|culture|360|380|367|373|of the culture wells,|

100|9647977.ti.1|M1
Ethical and cultural concerns in sexual function assessment.
culture|cultural|12|28|12|19|cultural concerns|
PMID- 9647977
TI  - Ethical and cultural concerns in sexual function assessment.  
AB  - The ethical and cultural issues accompanying sex research methods are rarely discussed. The present remarks briefly examine three previously described ethical principles--respect for people, beneficence and justice--as they might relate to sexual dysfunction assessment in clinical trials. Given the fact that sexuality is a social behavior and the outcome measures are reliant on some form of self report, there are specific pressures on investigators to conduct research assessment that respects ethical principles and cultural values. Examples with respect to screening criteria and participant selection are discussed. Recommendations include: (a) excluding participants with selected sexual and non-sexual diagnoses, psychosocial behaviors and habits; (b) including proportional ethnic groups as well as non-heterosexual participants; and (c) considering the couple, rather than just an individual, as study subjects who each require medical and psychosocial screening, assessment, and informed consent.
culture|cultural|33|49|33|40|cultural concerns|

