1|9329015.ab.10|M2
Results reported here indicate that hormonal CCK can readily access gallbladder ganglia, since there is no evidence for a blood-ganglionic barrier in the gallbladder.
ganglion|ganglionic|116|145|128|137|for a blood-ganglionic barrier|
PMID- 9329015
TI  - Innervation of the gallbladder: structure, neurochemical coding, and physiological properties of guinea pig gallbladder ganglia.  
AB  - The muscle and epithelial tissues of the gallbladder are regulated by a ganglionated plexus that lies within the wall of the organ. Although these ganglia are derived from the same set of precursor neural crest cells that colonize the gut, they exhibit structural, neurochemical and physiological characteristics that are distinct from the myenteric and submucous plexuses of the enteric nervous system. Structurally, the ganglionated plexus of the guinea pig gallbladder is comprised of small clusters of neurons that are located in the outer wall of the organ, between the serosa and underlying smooth muscle. The ganglia are encapsulated by a shell of fibroblasts and a basal lamina, and are devoid of collagen. Gallbladder neurons are rather simple in structure, consisting of a soma, a few short dendritic processes and one or two long axons. Results reported here indicate that all gallbladder neurons are probably cholinergic since they all express immunoreactivity for choline acetyltransferase. The majority of these neurons also express substance P, neuropeptide Y, and somatostatin, and a small remaining population of neurons express vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) immunoreactivity and NADPH-diaphorase enzymatic activity. We report here that NADPH-diaphorase activity, nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity, and VIP immunoreactivity are expressed by the same neurons in the gallbladder. Physiological studies indicate that the ganglia of the gallbladder are the site of action of the following neurohumoral inputs: 1) all neurons receive nicotinic input from vagal preganglionic fibers; 2) norepinephrine released from sympathetic postganglionic fibers acts presynaptically on vagal terminals within gallbladder ganglia to decrease the release of acetylcholine from vagal terminals; 3) substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, which are co-expressed in sensory fibers, cause prolonged depolarizations of gallbladder neurons that resemble slow EPSPs; and 4) cholecystokinin (CCK) acts presynaptically within gallbladder ganglia to increase the release of acetylcholine from vagal terminals. Results reported here indicate that hormonal CCK can readily access gallbladder ganglia, since there is no evidence for a blood-ganglionic barrier in the gallbladder. Taken together, these results indicate that gallbladder ganglia are not simple relay stations, but rather sites of complex modulatory interactions that ultimately influence the functions of muscle and epithelial cells in the organ.
ganglion|ganglionic|2391|2420|2403|2412|for a blood-ganglionic barrier|

2|9377635.ab.5|M2
Neurons originating from campaniform sensilla and Janet's organ send additional collaterals into the subesophageal ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|92|123|115|122|into the subesophageal ganglion.|
PMID- 9377635
TI  - Proprioceptors and fast antennal reflexes in the ant Odontomachus (Formicidae, Ponerinae).  
AB  - In ants, antennal movements support the stimulus perception of olfactory and mechanosensory sensilla, most of which are located on the distal part of the antenna. In addition, sensory hair plates, campaniform sensilla, and Janet's organ provide the ant with proprioceptive information about the position, velocity, and acceleration of their antennae. We describe the morphology of these proprioceptors and their afferent neurons with special reference to the trap-jaw ant genus Odontomachus. All these sensory neurons terminate in the dorsal lobe, the part of the brain that also contains antennal motor neurons and that controls antennal movements. Neurons originating from campaniform sensilla and Janet's organ send additional collaterals into the subesophageal ganglion. Particularly fast antennal movements occur during protective withdrawal of the antenna. Under natural conditions, antennal retraction in Odontomachus always precedes the rapid mandible strike. We have found no indication of monosynaptic coupling between the antennal proprioceptive afferents and the trigger motor neurons that release the mandible strike. Instead, complex neuronal interactions in the involved neuromeres are more likely to control the timing of the two reflexes. The normal behavioral sequence of antennal retraction can be reversed by artificially releasing the mandible strike earlier than normal. The significance of fast antennal reflexes and of proprioceptive control is discussed.
ganglion|ganglion|862|893|885|892|into the subesophageal ganglion.|

3|9303521.ab.6|M2
The recommended protocol for using the physical disector was found to give accurate estimates of neuron number, but the heterogeneous distribution of neurons in the ganglion led to sampling errors of up to 50%.
ganglion|ganglion|158|172|165|172|in the ganglion|
PMID- 9303521
TI  - Sensory neuron number in neonatal and adult rats estimated by means of stereologic and profile-based methods.  
AB  - Postnatal neuron addition, if it occurred, would have profound implications both for the conceptualization of developmental processes and for efforts directed at replacing neurons that were lost to injury or disease. Although dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) offer the advantages of clear boundaries and functional homogeneity, studies comparing neuron number in the DRGs of animals of different ages or sizes have yielded conflicting results. In the present study, neuron number in DRGs L3-L6 was compared in neonatal (approximately 11 days old, mean weight of 24.5 g, mean volume of 25 cm3) and adult (approximately 80 days old, mean weight of 373.5 g, mean volume of 346 cm3) male Sprague-Dawley rats. Estimates of neuron number were derived by using both stereological (physical disector) and profile-counting (one or more nucleoli within a nucleus) methods. The reliability and validity of the two methods were evaluated by comparing estimates of neuron number with those derived from three-dimensional reconstruction of a subset of neurons. The recommended protocol for using the physical disector was found to give accurate estimates of neuron number, but the heterogeneous distribution of neurons in the ganglion led to sampling errors of up to 50%. Reliability was improved by increasing the number of disector pairs examined. Counts of nuclear/nucleolar profiles were more reliable, but introduced a bias that worked against the experimental hypothesis in that estimates of neuron number in neonates exceeded actual values. Nonetheless, both methods indicated that adult rats had more DRG neurons than did neonates. Profile counts were 19% higher in adults (P < .01, two-tailed t-test); and data obtained by using the physical disector showed that adult rats had 28% more neurons than did neonates (P < .05). The difference in neuron number between adults and neonates could be due either to neuron proliferation or to late differentiation of neurons that do not assume a typical appearance until adulthood.
ganglion|ganglion|1338|1352|1345|1352|in the ganglion|

4|9331172.ab.3|M2
We found that the number of synaptic profiles per micron length of the motoneuron axons was greatest close to the ganglion; the cumulative distribution of profiles could be fitted to curves of the form f(x) = alpha(1 - e(-beta x)), where x = the distance from the thoracic ganglion, and alpha and beta are constants.
ganglion|ganglion|107|121|114|121|to the ganglion|
PMID- 9331172
TI  - Patterns of connectivity in a Drosophila nerve.  
AB  - We investigated the spatial patterns of synaptic profiles in en passant synapses between the premotor axon of a peripherally synapsing interneuron (PAPSI) and a set of individually identifiable motoneuron axons in Drosophila melanogaster. These synaptic profiles are distributed as the axons travel parallel to each other in a bundle; the synapses begin as the axons leave the thoracic ganglion and continue peripherally for 45-65 microm. We found that the number of synaptic profiles per micron length of the motoneuron axons was greatest close to the ganglion; the cumulative distribution of profiles could be fitted to curves of the form f(x) = alpha(1 - e(-beta x)), where x = the distance from the thoracic ganglion, and alpha and beta are constants. The distribution of synaptic profiles was also examined in a mutant strain, Passover (Pas), known to affect connectivity in a pathway that includes the PAPSI. The synaptic profiles between the PAPSI and the motoneuron axons appeared ultrastructurally unremarkable in Pas. Also, the total number of synaptic profiles between the PAPSI and the motoneuron axons did not differ between Pas and wild type flies. However, the distribution of synaptic profiles among the individual motoneuron axons did differ significantly from wild type flies, as did the area of contiguity between the motoneuron axons and the PAPSI, which was much greater in Pas than in wild type flies.
ganglion|ganglion|623|637|630|637|to the ganglion|

5|9334406.ab.6|M2
The DiI injection study in vivo confirmed the tendency of the direction of cell migration and suggested the origin of the cells to be in the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE).
ganglion|ganglionic|134|167|149|158|in the lateral ganglionic eminence|
PMID- 9334406
TI  - Origin and route of tangentially migrating neurons in the developing neocortical intermediate zone.  
AB  - Neuroblasts produced in the ventricular zone of the neocortex migrate radially and form the cortical plate, settling in an inside-out order. It is also well known that the tangential cell migration is not negligible in the embryonic neocortex. To have a better understanding of the tangential cell migration in the cortex, we disturbed the migration by making a cut in the neocortex, and we labeled the migrating cells with 1,1'-dioctodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) in vivo and in vitro. We also determined the birth dates of the cells. Disturbance of tangential cell migration caused an accumulation and disappearance of microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactive (MAP2-IR) cells on the ventral and dorsal side of the cut, respectively, which indicated that most of the MAP2-IR cells in the intermediate zone (IZ) were migrating toward the dorsal cortex. The DiI injection study in vivo confirmed the tendency of the direction of cell migration and suggested the origin of the cells to be in the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE). DiI injection into the LGE in vitro confirmed that the LGE cells cross the corticostriatal boundary and enter the IZ of the neocortex. The migrating cells acquired multipolar shape in the IZ of the dorsal cortex and seemed to reside there. A 5-bromo-deoxyuridine incorporation study revealed that the migrating MAP2-IR cells in the IZ were early-generated neurons. We concluded that the majority of tangentially migrating cells were generated in the LGE and identified as a distinct population that was assumed not to have joined the cortical plate.
ganglion|ganglionic|1155|1188|1170|1179|in the lateral ganglionic eminence|

6|9300421.ti.1|M2
Classification of rhythmic patterns in the stomatogastric ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|36|66|58|65|in the stomatogastric ganglion.|
PMID- 9300421
TI  - Classification of rhythmic patterns in the stomatogastric ganglion.  
AB  - A large class of neural pattern generators change their rhythmic output under the influence of neuromodulators. We present a method for identifying the variety of rhythmic patterns generated by small neural networks. The technique provides a tool for investigating the biological mechanisms responsible for pattern generation and pattern switching. Discrete methods based on transition graphs are applied to dynamic biological networks to generate sets of possible rhythmic behaviours. A measure is introduced onto the set of rhythms to quantify their differences and organize the set according to clusters of similar rhythms. Each cluster represents a different operational mode of the network. Examples are drawn from the stomatogastric ganglion, a well studied network that controls the muscles in the foregut of crustaceans. Classes of rhythms are found that correspond to experimentally observed patterns, and other classes of rhythms are found that have not yet been observed. Predictions are made for the rhythmic output of the stomatogastric ganglion under specific manipulations of parameters in the biological network.
ganglion|ganglion|57|87|79|86|in the stomatogastric ganglion.|

7|9233492.ab.1|M2
OBJECTIVE: This article highlights the clinical presentation and treatment issues of ganglionic hamartoma of the internal auditory canal and emphasizes the similarity of this lesion to acoustic neuroma regarding its audiologic and radiographic characteristics.
ganglion|ganglionic|82|104|85|94|of ganglionic hamartoma|
PMID- 9233492
TI  - Ganglionic hamartoma of the intracanalicular acoustic nerve causing sensorineural hearing loss.  
AB  - OBJECTIVE: This article highlights the clinical presentation and treatment issues of ganglionic hamartoma of the internal auditory canal and emphasizes the similarity of this lesion to acoustic neuroma regarding its audiologic and radiographic characteristics. STUDY DESIGN: This article is composed of case reports and a literature review. SETTING: The study was performed at a university hospital/tertiary referral center. PATIENT: A patient with biopsy-proven ganglionic hamartoma of the acoustic nerve was studied. INTERVENTION: Intervention consisted of surgical therapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The main outcome measure was clinical evaluation. RESULTS: The result was successful removal of lesions with facial nerve preservation. CONCLUSIONS: An intracanalicular ganglionic hamartoma resulted in progressive sensorineural hearing loss and magnetic resonance imaging findings suggestive of small acoustic neuroma. This lesion, composed of an admixture of ganglion cells, fibroadipose-tissue, and normal myelinated axons, although rare, should be added to the differential diagnosis of internal auditory canal lesions.
ganglion|ganglionic|207|229|210|219|of ganglionic hamartoma|

8|9322116.ab.6|M2
Not only can an insect ganglion show the behavioral characteristics of LH, but the neural information underlying the phenomenon of LH can be shown to transfer from one ganglion innervating one pair of legs to another ganglion innervating a different pair of legs.
ganglion|ganglion|13|30|23|30|an insect ganglion|
PMID- 9322116
TI  - A ganglionic model of "learned helplessness".  
AB  - The phenomenon known as "learned helplessness" (LH) is seen broadly across the animal kingdom. Some of the basic characteristics of this behavior are: failure to escape shock when it is possible to do so following non-escapable shock; reversion to non-escape behavior even after successful escape; if the animal is given escape/avoidance training prior to being given inescapable shocks, the latter will not interfere with its ability to later show normal escape/avoidance behavior (generally described as an immunization effect); following inescapable shock training the animals often become "passive and still" when confronted with an inescapable shock. These behaviors are seen in intact mammals, lower vertebrates, and invertebrates. In fact, the basic characteristics are even seen in a spinal rat and, with the exception of one characteristic not yet examined, in an isolated thoracic ganglion of an insect. The brain is evidently not essential either in mammals or in invertebrates for demonstrating this behavior. Not only can an insect ganglion show the behavioral characteristics of LH, but the neural information underlying the phenomenon of LH can be shown to transfer from one ganglion innervating one pair of legs to another ganglion innervating a different pair of legs. Thus, how CNS information underlying LH is coded and transferred from one site to another within the CNS can be examined in such a system. The LH model has provided valuable insights into the physiology of depression. This model suggests that human depression is caused by one's lack of control over traumatic events. It is supported by a number of parallels between depression and LH behavior. Tricyclic antidepressants, MAO inhibitors, and ECT, which are effective in treating depression, also can prevent and reverse LH in mammals. It would be important to find out if they are also effective in invertebrate models. The fact that the characteristics of the behavior called LH are seen in invertebrates such as slugs, cockroaches, and locusts provokes other intriguing questions about the presence of cognition at these phylogenetic levels, as well as what animal or preparation constitutes an appropriate model for human depression.
ganglion|ganglion|1110|1127|1120|1127|an insect ganglion|

9|9322116.ab.6|M2
Not only can an insect ganglion show the behavioral characteristics of LH, but the neural information underlying the phenomenon of LH can be shown to transfer from one ganglion innervating one pair of legs to another ganglion innervating a different pair of legs.
ganglion|ganglion|206|224|217|224|to another ganglion|
PMID- 9322116
TI  - A ganglionic model of "learned helplessness".  
AB  - The phenomenon known as "learned helplessness" (LH) is seen broadly across the animal kingdom. Some of the basic characteristics of this behavior are: failure to escape shock when it is possible to do so following non-escapable shock; reversion to non-escape behavior even after successful escape; if the animal is given escape/avoidance training prior to being given inescapable shocks, the latter will not interfere with its ability to later show normal escape/avoidance behavior (generally described as an immunization effect); following inescapable shock training the animals often become "passive and still" when confronted with an inescapable shock. These behaviors are seen in intact mammals, lower vertebrates, and invertebrates. In fact, the basic characteristics are even seen in a spinal rat and, with the exception of one characteristic not yet examined, in an isolated thoracic ganglion of an insect. The brain is evidently not essential either in mammals or in invertebrates for demonstrating this behavior. Not only can an insect ganglion show the behavioral characteristics of LH, but the neural information underlying the phenomenon of LH can be shown to transfer from one ganglion innervating one pair of legs to another ganglion innervating a different pair of legs. Thus, how CNS information underlying LH is coded and transferred from one site to another within the CNS can be examined in such a system. The LH model has provided valuable insights into the physiology of depression. This model suggests that human depression is caused by one's lack of control over traumatic events. It is supported by a number of parallels between depression and LH behavior. Tricyclic antidepressants, MAO inhibitors, and ECT, which are effective in treating depression, also can prevent and reverse LH in mammals. It would be important to find out if they are also effective in invertebrate models. The fact that the characteristics of the behavior called LH are seen in invertebrates such as slugs, cockroaches, and locusts provokes other intriguing questions about the presence of cognition at these phylogenetic levels, as well as what animal or preparation constitutes an appropriate model for human depression.
ganglion|ganglion|1303|1321|1314|1321|to another ganglion|

10|9278709.ti.1|M2
The petrosal ganglion of the adult cat: neuronal count, sectional area, and their respective distributions.
ganglion|ganglion|0|20|13|20|The petrosal ganglion|
PMID- 9278709
TI  -  The petrosal ganglion of the adult cat: neuronal count, sectional area, and their respective distributions.  
AB  - The petrosal ganglion contains most of the perikarya of sensory neurons of the glossopharyngeal nerve. We studied the number and size of neuronal somata in 4 petrosal ganglia from adult cats. Ganglia were serially sectioned in length at 8 microns, sections drawn through a projection microscope, and those neuronal profiles presenting nuclei and nucleoli on each section were counted and their areas measured. The number of neurons ranged from 2311 to 3429 (2908 +/- 271; mean +/- SEM). Neurons were symmetrically distributed around the longitudinal axes of most ganglia, with a skewed distribution in only one ganglion. The sectional area of most neurons (> 98%) ranged between 250 and 1725 microns 2, with median values of 667-963 microns 2. Area distributions were significantly different, but differences never exceeded 8.2% in related area bins. The ganglion presenting a skewed count distribution and the highest median area departed from the rest, with differences surpassing 25%. We conclude that the neuronal population of the petrosal ganglion of the cat is regular both with respect to the number and the size of its constituents, with departures from this pattern probably reflecting individual variations.
ganglion|ganglion|22|42|35|42|The petrosal ganglion|

11|9349893.ab.5|M1
A mass compressing the peroneal nerve at the level of the fibula neck was excised totally and diagnosed as a ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|104|117|109|116|as a ganglion.|
PMID- 9349893
TI  - Compression neuropathy of the peroneal nerve caused by a ganglion.  
AB  - Peroneal nerve injury usually results from fracture of the fibula neck or direct pressure from an ill-fitting plaster cast. Clinically, these patients present with "drop foot." Compression neuropathy caused by a ganglion is rarely encountered. This report concerns the clinical and radiologic evaluation of a 57-year-old man admitted to our clinic with left drop foot. A mass compressing the peroneal nerve at the level of the fibula neck was excised totally and diagnosed as a ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|569|582|574|581|as a ganglion.|

12|9387369.ab.3|M2
The various nerves connected with the CCMG have been cut, the results demonstrate that the SP immunoreactive material in the ganglion were only decreased obviously or disappeared by cutting the DRG associated with the CCMG.
ganglion|ganglion|118|132|125|132|in the ganglion|
PMID- 9387369
TI  - [A study on the reflex arc outside the central nervous system with sympathetic ganglia as the centre]  
AB  - The distribution of SP-like immunoreactivity in the sensory and sympathetic ganglia, as well as the fiber connection between sensory ganglia and sympathetic ganglia (SG) were studied by the immunohistochemical ABC and HRP methods. A large number of SP-like neurons were found in all dorsal root ganglia (DRG), and a large number of SP-like fibers and terminals were found in both thoracic SG and coeliac-cranial mesenteric ganglion complex (CCMG), but no SP positive perikaryons were seen in those ganglia. The various nerves connected with the CCMG have been cut, the results demonstrate that the SP immunoreactive material in the ganglion were only decreased obviously or disappeared by cutting the DRG associated with the CCMG. After injecting HRP into T7-9DRG, a few of labelled neurons were found in thoracic SG of the relative segments and CCMG. The results mentioned above revealed that SP-containing fibers and terminals present in the SG come from collateral branches of primary sensory neurons in the DRG, the postganglionic fibers from principal ganglion neurons in the SG projecting to the DRG, the connection of reciprocal fibers are present between the DRG and the SG. It is suggested that a reflex shortloop outside the central nervous system may be formed directly by primary afferent neuron and sympathetic postganglionic neuron for the purpose of regulating the activity of autonomic nervous system and, moreover the sympathetic nerve may have a feedback regulation function to the primary afferent. The results mentioned above offer the partial morphological testimony for the expoundity of acupuncture mechanism.
ganglion|ganglion|756|770|763|770|in the ganglion|

13|9369374.ab.3|M2
Five peripheral muscarinic responses were characterized based on their sensitivity to intravenous administration of atropine (1-100 microg/kg), pirenzepine (1-100 microg/kg) or gallamine (30-3000 microg/kg) as follows: (1) muscarinic ganglionic transmission through the superior cervical ganglion to the nictitating membrane (M1), (2) electrically elicited vagal bradycardia (M2), (3) neurally evoked sudomotor responses (M3; non-endothelial), (4) basal pupil tone in sympathectomized cats (M3; non-endothelial) and (5) methacholine-induced depression of arterial blood pressure (M3; endothelial).
ganglion|ganglionic|223|264|234|243|muscarinic ganglionic transmission through|
PMID- 9369374
TI  - Effect of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester on functionally characterized muscarinic receptors in anesthetized cats.  
AB  - This study was undertaken to determine if the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), is a competitive antagonist of muscarinic receptors in vivo. Cats were anesthetized with pentobarbital (36 mg/kg, i.p.). Five peripheral muscarinic responses were characterized based on their sensitivity to intravenous administration of atropine (1-100 microg/kg), pirenzepine (1-100 microg/kg) or gallamine (30-3000 microg/kg) as follows: (1) muscarinic ganglionic transmission through the superior cervical ganglion to the nictitating membrane (M1), (2) electrically elicited vagal bradycardia (M2), (3) neurally evoked sudomotor responses (M3; non-endothelial), (4) basal pupil tone in sympathectomized cats (M3; non-endothelial) and (5) methacholine-induced depression of arterial blood pressure (M3; endothelial). Additional groups of animals were administered L-NAME (50 mg/kg, i.v.) to determine if this agent would alter activation of these muscarinic systems. L-NAME was devoid of effect on responses elicited by stimulation of muscarinic M1, M2 and M3 (non-endothelial) receptors. In contrast, L-NAME significantly reduced the depressor responses to i.v. methacholine (M3; endothelial), as did its non-alkyl ester congener, L-NA (NG-nitro-L-arginine; 25 mg/kg, i.v.). These results support the conclusion that although L-NAME inhibits synthesis of nitric oxide in vascular endothelial cells, it is not a generalized muscarinic receptor antagonist in vivo.
ganglion|ganglionic|618|659|629|638|muscarinic ganglionic transmission through|

14|9373784.ab.1|M2
Intravenous administration of the ganglionic nicotinic receptor agonist DMPP (1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide) into urethane-anaesthetized rats evoked dose-dependent increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA).
ganglion|ganglionic|27|75|34|43|of the ganglionic nicotinic receptor agonist DMPP|
PMID- 9373784
TI  - DMPP-evoked increases in postganglionic sympathetic nerve activity and blood pressure occurs by two mechanisms in the rat.  
AB  - 1. Intravenous administration of the ganglionic nicotinic receptor agonist DMPP (1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide) into urethane-anaesthetized rats evoked dose-dependent increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA). 2. The ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonists pentolinium and hexamethonium either alone or combined did not inhibit the increase in RSNA and MAP evoked by 50 to 200 micrograms kg-1 doses of DMPP. The increase in renal sympathetic nerve activity evoked by DMPP occurred as a brief burst in firing. 3. The increase in MAP, but not RSNA, evoked by DMPP in the presence of pentolinium was inhibited by the selective alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin. 4. The non-selective alpha-adrenoceptor and NPY receptor antagonist benextramine also inhibited the increase in MAP without inhibiting the increase in RSNA. Surprisingly, the combination of benextramine and pentolinium, or benextramine and hexamethonium, completely blocked the DMPP-evoked increase in RSNA and thus the increase in MAP. 5. The uptake1 antagonist desipramine combined with pentolinium did not affect the DMPP-evoked increases in MAP or RSNA when compared to the responses evoked in the presence of pentolinium alone. 6. Adding the selective M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist telenzepine to pentolinium and prazosin did not inhibit the increase in RSNA evoked by a 100 micrograms kg-1 dose of DMPP. 7. While the DMPP-evoked increase in MAP in the presence of ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonists is primarily dependent upon activation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors, the increase in RSNA occurs via activation of ganglionic nicotinic receptors and activation of a mechanism susceptible to blockade by benextramine.
ganglion|ganglionic|182|230|189|198|of the ganglionic nicotinic receptor agonist DMPP|

15|9373784.ab.15|M2
While the DMPP-evoked increase in MAP in the presence of ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonists is primarily dependent upon activation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors, the increase in RSNA occurs via activation of ganglionic nicotinic receptors and activation of a mechanism susceptible to blockade by benextramine.
ganglion|ganglionic|54|97|57|66|of ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonists|
PMID- 9373784
TI  - DMPP-evoked increases in postganglionic sympathetic nerve activity and blood pressure occurs by two mechanisms in the rat.  
AB  - 1. Intravenous administration of the ganglionic nicotinic receptor agonist DMPP (1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide) into urethane-anaesthetized rats evoked dose-dependent increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA). 2. The ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonists pentolinium and hexamethonium either alone or combined did not inhibit the increase in RSNA and MAP evoked by 50 to 200 micrograms kg-1 doses of DMPP. The increase in renal sympathetic nerve activity evoked by DMPP occurred as a brief burst in firing. 3. The increase in MAP, but not RSNA, evoked by DMPP in the presence of pentolinium was inhibited by the selective alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin. 4. The non-selective alpha-adrenoceptor and NPY receptor antagonist benextramine also inhibited the increase in MAP without inhibiting the increase in RSNA. Surprisingly, the combination of benextramine and pentolinium, or benextramine and hexamethonium, completely blocked the DMPP-evoked increase in RSNA and thus the increase in MAP. 5. The uptake1 antagonist desipramine combined with pentolinium did not affect the DMPP-evoked increases in MAP or RSNA when compared to the responses evoked in the presence of pentolinium alone. 6. Adding the selective M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist telenzepine to pentolinium and prazosin did not inhibit the increase in RSNA evoked by a 100 micrograms kg-1 dose of DMPP. 7. While the DMPP-evoked increase in MAP in the presence of ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonists is primarily dependent upon activation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors, the increase in RSNA occurs via activation of ganglionic nicotinic receptors and activation of a mechanism susceptible to blockade by benextramine.
ganglion|ganglionic|1653|1696|1656|1665|of ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonists|

16|9348335.ab.4|M2
The neurotrophins acting on the developing placode-derived visceral nodose/petrosal (N/P) ganglion neurons are BDNF, NT3, and NT4.
ganglion|ganglion|90|105|90|97|ganglion neurons|
PMID- 9348335
TI  - Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, and neurotrophin-4 complement and cooperate with each other sequentially during visceral neuron development.  
AB  - The neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT4) are crucial target-derived factors controlling the survival of peripheral sensory neurons during the embryonic period of programmed cell death. Recently, NT3 has also been found to act in a local manner on somatic sensory precursor cells during early development in vivo. Culture studies suggest that these cells switch dependency to NGF at later stages. The neurotrophins acting on the developing placode-derived visceral nodose/petrosal (N/P) ganglion neurons are BDNF, NT3, and NT4. To assess their roles in development, we analyzed embryonic development in mice carrying a deletion in each of these genes, or combinations of them, and found that they are essential in preventing the death of N/P ganglion neurons during different periods of embryogenesis. Both NT3 and NT4 are crucial during the period of ganglion formation, whereas BDNF acts later in development. Many, but not all, of the NT3- and NT4-dependent neurons switch to BDNF at later stages. We conclude that most of the N/P ganglion neurons depend on more than one neurotrophin and that they act in a complementary as well as a collaborative manner in a developmental sequence for the establishment of a full complement of visceral neurons.
ganglion|ganglion|768|783|768|775|ganglion neurons|

17|9348335.ab.6|M2
Both NT3 and NT4 are crucial during the period of ganglion formation, whereas BDNF acts later in development.
ganglion|ganglion|47|68|50|57|of ganglion formation,|
PMID- 9348335
TI  - Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, and neurotrophin-4 complement and cooperate with each other sequentially during visceral neuron development.  
AB  - The neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT4) are crucial target-derived factors controlling the survival of peripheral sensory neurons during the embryonic period of programmed cell death. Recently, NT3 has also been found to act in a local manner on somatic sensory precursor cells during early development in vivo. Culture studies suggest that these cells switch dependency to NGF at later stages. The neurotrophins acting on the developing placode-derived visceral nodose/petrosal (N/P) ganglion neurons are BDNF, NT3, and NT4. To assess their roles in development, we analyzed embryonic development in mice carrying a deletion in each of these genes, or combinations of them, and found that they are essential in preventing the death of N/P ganglion neurons during different periods of embryogenesis. Both NT3 and NT4 are crucial during the period of ganglion formation, whereas BDNF acts later in development. Many, but not all, of the NT3- and NT4-dependent neurons switch to BDNF at later stages. We conclude that most of the N/P ganglion neurons depend on more than one neurotrophin and that they act in a complementary as well as a collaborative manner in a developmental sequence for the establishment of a full complement of visceral neurons.
ganglion|ganglion|1130|1151|1133|1140|of ganglion formation,|

18|9374746.ab.8|M2
These findings suggest that an increase in intracavernous pressure caused by pelvic nerve stimulation in anesthetized dogs is mediated by NO liberated from postganglionic neurons that originate in the ganglion located in the vicinity of corpus cavernosum.
ganglion|ganglion|194|208|201|208|in the ganglion|
PMID- 9374746
TI  - Pelvic nerve stimulation-induced pressor responses in corpus cavernosum of anesthetized dogs.  
AB  - To analyze the mechanism of penile erection and pathogenesis of impotence, pressures in the corpus cavernosum in anesthetized dogs were measured. Pelvic nerve stimulation produced pressor responses in a frequency-dependent manner. Intravenous injections of NG-nitro-L-arginine, a nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, dose dependently attenuated the response, and the inhibition was reversed by intravenous injection of L-arginine but not of D-arginine. The response was also inhibited by NG-nitro-L-arginine injected into the corpus cavernosum, the potency being approximately 10 times of that applied intravenously. The intracavernous injection of L-arginine restored the response. NG, NG-dimethylarginine, an endogenous NO synthase inhibitor, dose dependently attenuated the stimulation-induced response, which was restored by an intracavernous injection of L-arginine. An intravenous injection of hexamethonium abolished the pressor response to nerve stimulation, whereas phentolamine and atropine did not significantly alter the response. These findings suggest that an increase in intracavernous pressure caused by pelvic nerve stimulation in anesthetized dogs is mediated by NO liberated from postganglionic neurons that originate in the ganglion located in the vicinity of corpus cavernosum.
ganglion|ganglion|1361|1375|1368|1375|in the ganglion|

19|9390765.ab.10|M2
By contrast, about one-half of AL interneurones, especially the third subtype of AL interneurones, which have cell bodies located ventrolaterally in the ganglion, did not show GABA-like immunoreactivity.
ganglion|ganglion|146|161|153|160|in the ganglion,|
PMID- 9390765
TI  - Distribution of GABAergic premotor nonspiking local interneurones in the terminal abdominal ganglion of the crayfish.  
AB  - The inhibitory neurotransmitter of premotor nonspiking local interneurones in the crayfish terminal abdominal ganglion was investigated physiologically and immunocytochemically. Depolarization of a nonspiking interneurone evoked a hyperpolarization in a uropod motor neurone. The amplitude of hyperpolarization in the motor neurone was gradually decreased under low-calcium/high-magnesium saline. Local pressure injection of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) into the neuropil caused a similar hyperpolarization of the motor neurone. These physiological studies suggested a GABAergic inhibitory interaction between nonspiking interneurones and the motor neurones. Premotor nonspiking interneurones are classified into two subgroups ofposterolateral (PL) and anterolateral (AL) interneurones, and AL interneurones are further divided into three subtypes. A combination of intracellular staining from nonspiking local interneurones with Lucifer yellow and immunocytochemical staining with an antiserum directed against GABA revealed that all the PL interneurones sampled in this study showed GABA-like immunoreactivity. A population of cell bodies (n = 6-11) with a small diameter (15-30 microm) packed together forming a cluster showed GABA-like immunoreactivity, and the cell bodies of most PL interneurones were found in this cluster. To compare the number and the pattern of main branches of PL interneurones, cells were classified into three identifiable sets of interneurones, called PL-1, PL-2, and PL-3. By contrast, about one-half of AL interneurones, especially the third subtype of AL interneurones, which have cell bodies located ventrolaterally in the ganglion, did not show GABA-like immunoreactivity. Furthermore, the position of cell bodies of GABA-immunoreactive AL interneurones was scattered compared to that of PL interneurones.
ganglion|ganglion|1800|1815|1807|1814|in the ganglion,|

20|9398469.ab.2|M2
The effect of selective embryonic dissection of the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) was compared with the standard dissection of the whole ganglionic eminence (WGE) at each of three embryonic ages (14, 15, and 16 days of gestation) in the rat.
ganglion|ganglionic|128|159|141|150|of the whole ganglionic eminence|
PMID- 9398469
TI  - Effect of embryonic donor age and dissection on the DARPP-32 content of cell suspensions used for intrastriatal transplantation.  
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine in vitro the DARPP-32 content of donor cells used for striatal transplantation in vivo. The effect of selective embryonic dissection of the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) was compared with the standard dissection of the whole ganglionic eminence (WGE) at each of three embryonic ages (14, 15, and 16 days of gestation) in the rat. The resultant cell suspensions were cultured for up to 7 days and incubated with antibodies against DARPP-32, a marker of striatal medium spiny neurons; beta-tubulin III, a neuronal marker; GFAP, a marker of reactive astrocytes; and Gal-C, a marker of oligodendrocytes. LGE dissection gave rise to more DARPP-32 neurons compared to WGE; but this relationship was only observed in the younger embryos. When older (16 days gestation) embryos are used there is no difference in the yield of DARPP-32 cells obtained from LGE and WGE. LGE dissections were also observed to contain fewer glial cells. There was no beneficial effect of LGE over WGE on survival of striatal neurons in vitro. These results have important implications for the selection and dissection of fetal donor material used in clinical trials of intrastriatal transplantation as a potential treatment for Huntington's disease.
ganglion|ganglionic|413|444|426|435|of the whole ganglionic eminence|

21|9342751.ab.8|M2
Biopsy serial sections of the rectum-mucosa that contained submucosa demonstrated that 30-40% of the sections contained no submucous ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|120|141|133|140|no submucous ganglion.|
PMID- 9342751
TI  - Morphometric determination of the methodological criteria for the diagnosis of intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND B).  
AB  - Intestinal neuronal dysplasia of the submucous plexus (IND B) is an indicator of a developmental abnormality of vegetative gut innervation. It is the mildest form of an inborn error of intestinal innervation. The diagnosis of IND B does not result in a functional conclusion or clinical recommendation but is often accompanied by oligoneuronal hypoganglionosis of the myenteric plexus or an aganglionosis of the rectum. The aim of this study was to demonstrate by morphometric means a way in which the diagnosis of IND B could be made much more reliable. In 20 control subjects, 40 IND B cases and 10 hypoganglionoses with IND B, it was shown that a specific nerve cell staining (e.g. Lactic dehydrogenase, Succinic dehydrogenase, Diaphorase reaction or an immunohistochemical nerve cell staining) was necessary for diagnosis. Cross sections of giant ganglions and cross sections with large nerve cell numbers (> 7 nerve cell profiles) were the most reliable diagnostic criteria. The morphometric examinations were performed with an optic electronic image analysis system. Biopsy serial sections of the rectum-mucosa that contained submucosa demonstrated that 30-40% of the sections contained no submucous ganglion. Sixty to 70% of the sections showed ganglia of the submucous plexus. In 100 biopsy sections in subjects with IND B, 20 +/- 5% contained giant ganglions cross sections. In the patients with hypoganglionosis of the submucous plexus, 55 +/- 4% sections had no ganglion and 18 +/- 3% had giant ganglion cross sections. The data demonstrate that for a reliable diagnosis of IND B, at least 30 sections are necessary, stained with a dehydrogenase reaction that contain a minimum of 4 giant ganglion cross sections. These data demonstrate that IND B is not a qualitative diagnosis as Hirschsprung's disease but rather a quantitative diagnosis.
ganglion|ganglion|1340|1361|1353|1360|no submucous ganglion.|

22|9348682.ab.3|M2
Afterwards, TTRS boundaries were recorded from cochlear ganglion neurons at 0-1, 5, 14, and 28 days postexposure.
ganglion|ganglion|42|71|56|63|from cochlear ganglion neurons|
PMID- 9348682
TI  - Two-tone rate suppression boundaries of cochlear ganglion neurons in chickens following acoustic trauma.  
AB  - The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of acoustic trauma and hair cell loss and regeneration on the two-tone rate suppression (TTRS) boundaries of cochlear ganglion neurons in chickens. Chickens were exposed for 48 hours to a 525-Hz, 120-dB SPL tone which destroyed the hair cells and tectorial membrane in a crescent-shaped patch along the abneural side of the basilar papilla. Afterwards, TTRS boundaries were recorded from cochlear ganglion neurons at 0-1, 5, 14, and 28 days postexposure. Acoustic trauma reduced the percentage of neurons with TTRS boundaries below CF (TTRSb) (52.6% to 8.2%) and above CF (TTRSa) (88.4% to 46.6%). In addition, the exposure reduced TTRS boundary slopes, elevated best suppression threshold (BST), and increased the frequency separation between the tips of the TTRS boundaries and CF. All the TTRS measures started to recover by 5 days postexposure and by 14 days and 28 days postexposure, most measures had recovered to normal levels. However, the BST, TTRS slopes, and the frequency separation of TTRSb boundaries from CF were still slightly abnormal near the exposure frequency. In addition, the percentage of neurons with TTRS below CF was reduced significantly. The partial recovery of TTRS boundaries is presumably due to the regeneration of hair cells and the lower honeycomb layer of the tectorial membrane. The residual TTRS deficits observed 28 days postexposure were most closely associated with the missing upper fibrous layer of the tectorial membrane.
ganglion|ganglion|577|606|591|598|from cochlear ganglion neurons|

23|9402647.ab.3|M2
The present study describes the distribution of binding sites for this peptide in the mature and developing V ganglion and brainstem complex and determines the effects of neonatal and adult ION damage and the associated changes in galanin levels upon their distribution and density.
ganglion|ganglion|97|117|110|117|developing V ganglion|
PMID- 9402647
TI  - Organization, development, and effects of infraorbital nerve transection on galanin binding sites in the trigeminal brainstem complex.  
AB  - Previous experiments from this laboratory have indicated that transection of the infraorbital nerve (ION, the trigeminal [V] branch that supplies the mystacial vibrissae follicles) at birth and in adulthood has markedly different effects on galanin immunoreactivity in the V brainstem complex. Adult nerve transection increases galanin immunoreactivity in the superficial layers of V subnucleus caudalis (SpC) only, while neonatal nerve transection results in increased galanin expression in vibrissae-related primary afferents throughout the V brainstem complex. The present study describes the distribution of binding sites for this peptide in the mature and developing V ganglion and brainstem complex and determines the effects of neonatal and adult ION damage and the associated changes in galanin levels upon their distribution and density. Galanin binding sites are densely distributed in all V brainstem subnuclei and are particularly dense in V subnucleus interpolaris and the superficial layers of SpC. They are present at birth (P-0) and their distribution is similar to that in adult animals. Transection of the ION in adulthood and examination of brainstem 7 days later indicated marked reductions in the density of galanin binding sites in the V brainstem complex. With the exception of the superficial laminae of SpC, the same reduction in density remained apparent in rats that survived > 45 days after nerve cuts. Transection of the ION on P-0 resulted in no change in the density of galanin binding sites in the brainstem after either 7 or > 60 days survival. These results indicate that densely distributed galanin binding sites are present in the V brainstem complex of both neonatal and adult rats, that they are located in regions not innervated by galanin-positive axons, and that their density is not significantly influenced by large lesion-induced changes in the primary afferent content of their natural ligand.
ganglion|ganglion|825|845|838|845|developing V ganglion|

24|9449405.ab.12|M2
After ganglionic blockade (chlorisondamine; 10 mg/kg), the differences in MCFP were no longer statistically significant between SHR and WKY at both 4 to 6 weeks of age (3.9+/-0.2 versus 4.0+/-0.3 mm Hg) and 8 to 10 weeks of age (5.0+/-0.3 versus 4.3+/-0.3 mm Hg, respectively).
ganglion|ganglionic|6|24|6|15|ganglionic blockade|
PMID- 9449405
TI  - Venous tone in the developmental stages of spontaneous hypertension.  
AB  - The initial stages of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) are characterized by an increase in cardiac output. Venous capacitance plays an important role in the control of cardiac output. This study tested the hypothesis that venous tone is elevated in the developmental stages of spontaneous hypertension. Male SHR or normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were instrumented for the measurement of arterial pressure (FAP) and intrathoracic vena caval pressure (FVP). A latex-tipped catheter was advanced into the right atrium via the jugular vein. Mean circulatory filling pressure (MCFP), an index of integrated venomotor tone, was calculated as MCFP=FVP+(FAP-FVP)/VAR. FAP and FVP were recorded after 5 seconds of right atrial balloon inflation. The venous to arterial compliance ratio (VAR) was estimated as 76 for WKY and 106 for SHR. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate, and MCFP were recorded in conscious rats of 4 to 6 and 8 to 10 weeks of age. In 4- to 6-week-old rats, both MAP and MCFP were significantly elevated in the SHR (MAP, 129+/-6 mm Hg; MCFP, 6.6+/-0.4 mm Hg) compared with the age-matched WKY (MAP, 91+/-6 mm Hg; MCFP, 5.4+/-0.4 mm Hg), whereas heart rate was not significantly different. The elevations in MAP (SHR, 144+/-4 mm Hg; WKY, 102+/-3 mm Hg) and MCFP (SHR, 7.7+/-0.3 mm Hg; WKY, 6.0+/-0.2 mm Hg) in SHR were exaggerated at 8 to 10 weeks of age. After ganglionic blockade (chlorisondamine; 10 mg/kg), the differences in MCFP were no longer statistically significant between SHR and WKY at both 4 to 6 weeks of age (3.9+/-0.2 versus 4.0+/-0.3 mm Hg) and 8 to 10 weeks of age (5.0+/-0.3 versus 4.3+/-0.3 mm Hg, respectively). The differences in MAP at 4 to 6 weeks of age (79+/-7 versus 67+/-5 mm Hg, respectively) also were not statistically significant after ganglionic blockade. However, a significant difference in MAP between strains remained after ganglionic blockade in 8- to 10-week-old rats (90+/-5 versus 63+/-3 mm Hg, respectively). These findings indicate that venous tone is increased via autonomic effector systems during the developmental stages of spontaneous hypertension. These data also suggest that autonomic mechanisms predominate at very early stages, whereas nonautonomic mechanisms assume more importance in maintaining the elevated MAP as hypertension progresses.
ganglion|ganglionic|1504|1522|1504|1513|ganglionic blockade|

25|9449405.ab.13|M2
The differences in MAP at 4 to 6 weeks of age (79+/-7 versus 67+/-5 mm Hg, respectively) also were not statistically significant after ganglionic blockade.
ganglion|ganglionic|135|154|135|144|ganglionic blockade.|
PMID- 9449405
TI  - Venous tone in the developmental stages of spontaneous hypertension.  
AB  - The initial stages of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) are characterized by an increase in cardiac output. Venous capacitance plays an important role in the control of cardiac output. This study tested the hypothesis that venous tone is elevated in the developmental stages of spontaneous hypertension. Male SHR or normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were instrumented for the measurement of arterial pressure (FAP) and intrathoracic vena caval pressure (FVP). A latex-tipped catheter was advanced into the right atrium via the jugular vein. Mean circulatory filling pressure (MCFP), an index of integrated venomotor tone, was calculated as MCFP=FVP+(FAP-FVP)/VAR. FAP and FVP were recorded after 5 seconds of right atrial balloon inflation. The venous to arterial compliance ratio (VAR) was estimated as 76 for WKY and 106 for SHR. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate, and MCFP were recorded in conscious rats of 4 to 6 and 8 to 10 weeks of age. In 4- to 6-week-old rats, both MAP and MCFP were significantly elevated in the SHR (MAP, 129+/-6 mm Hg; MCFP, 6.6+/-0.4 mm Hg) compared with the age-matched WKY (MAP, 91+/-6 mm Hg; MCFP, 5.4+/-0.4 mm Hg), whereas heart rate was not significantly different. The elevations in MAP (SHR, 144+/-4 mm Hg; WKY, 102+/-3 mm Hg) and MCFP (SHR, 7.7+/-0.3 mm Hg; WKY, 6.0+/-0.2 mm Hg) in SHR were exaggerated at 8 to 10 weeks of age. After ganglionic blockade (chlorisondamine; 10 mg/kg), the differences in MCFP were no longer statistically significant between SHR and WKY at both 4 to 6 weeks of age (3.9+/-0.2 versus 4.0+/-0.3 mm Hg) and 8 to 10 weeks of age (5.0+/-0.3 versus 4.3+/-0.3 mm Hg, respectively). The differences in MAP at 4 to 6 weeks of age (79+/-7 versus 67+/-5 mm Hg, respectively) also were not statistically significant after ganglionic blockade. However, a significant difference in MAP between strains remained after ganglionic blockade in 8- to 10-week-old rats (90+/-5 versus 63+/-3 mm Hg, respectively). These findings indicate that venous tone is increased via autonomic effector systems during the developmental stages of spontaneous hypertension. These data also suggest that autonomic mechanisms predominate at very early stages, whereas nonautonomic mechanisms assume more importance in maintaining the elevated MAP as hypertension progresses.
ganglion|ganglionic|1911|1930|1911|1920|ganglionic blockade.|

26|9417095.ab.9|M2
Based on these results and the relative abundance and homogeneity of tumor tissues versus the embryonic ganglion, tumor tissues were homogenized, membrane proteins were purified, and putative inhibin receptors were isolated using an inhibin affinity column.
ganglion|ganglion|90|112|104|111|the embryonic ganglion,|
PMID- 9417095
TI  - Identification of an inhibin receptor in gonadal tumors from inhibin alpha-subunit knockout mice.  
AB  - Inhibins and activins are dimeric proteins that are functional antagonists and are structurally related to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta) family of growth and differentiation factors. Receptors for activin and TGFbeta have been identified as dimers of serine-threonine kinase subunits that regulate cytoplasmic proteins known as Smads. Despite major advances in our understanding of activin and TGFbeta receptors and signaling pathways, little is known about inhibin receptors or the mechanism by which this molecule provides a functionally antagonistic signal to activin. Studies described in this paper indicate that an independent inhibin receptor exists. Numerous tissues were examined for inhibin-specific binding sites, including the developing embryo, in which the spinal ganglion and trigeminal ganglion-bound iodinated inhibin A. Sex cord stromal tumors, derived from male and female inhibin alpha-subunit-deficient mice, were also identified as a source of inhibin receptor. Abundant inhibin and few activin binding sites were identified in tumor tissue sections by in situ ligand binding using iodinated recombinant human inhibin A and 125I-labeled recombinant human inhibin A. Tumor cell binding was specific for each ligand (competed by excess unlabeled homologous ligand and not competed by heterologous ligand). Based on these results and the relative abundance and homogeneity of tumor tissues versus the embryonic ganglion, tumor tissues were homogenized, membrane proteins were purified, and putative inhibin receptors were isolated using an inhibin affinity column. Four proteins were eluted from the column that bind iodinated inhibin but not iodinated activin. These data suggest that inhibin-specific membrane-associated proteins (receptors) exist.
ganglion|ganglion|1559|1581|1573|1580|the embryonic ganglion,|

27|9406117.ab.9|M2
We conclude: (1) that ganglia are found in a fat pad on the surface of the left ventricle of the cat heart and (2) that the CV ganglion selectively mediates the negative inotropic effect of vagal stimulation on the left ventricle.
ganglion|ganglion|115|146|127|134|that the CV ganglion selectively|
PMID- 9406117
TI  - Vagal control of left ventricular contractility is selectively mediated by a cranioventricular intracardiac ganglion in the cat.  
AB  - Activation of the vagus nerve leads to decreases in sinoatrial (SA) rate, atrioventricular (AV) conduction, and myocardial contractility. Previous data are consistent with the hypothesis that vagal control of cardiac rate and AV conduction are mediated by two anatomically separated and physiologically independent parasympathetic intracardiac ganglia located in fat pads on the surface of the right and left atria, respectively. These data suggested that vagal control of ventricular contractility might be mediated through another intracardiac ganglion. We examined the ventricles of cat hearts histologically for the presence of ganglia. Multiple small basophilic ganglia composed of a few neurons, and an occasional larger ganglion were found embedded in the epicardial fat surrounding the cranial margin of the anterior surface of the left ventricle, near the juncture with the right ventricle, which we refer to as the CV ganglion. In anesthetized cats, right cervical vagal stimulation decreased SA rate by 44 +/- 5%, decreased the rate of AV conduction by 68 +/- 14%, and reduced ventricular contractility by 19.5 +/- 5.7%. Vagally induced negative inotropism was almost completely prevented by microinjection of a ganglionic blocking drug into the CV ganglion. However, these injections into the CV ganglion did not significantly effect vagally induced decreases in either SA rate or AV conduction. We conclude: (1) that ganglia are found in a fat pad on the surface of the left ventricle of the cat heart and (2) that the CV ganglion selectively mediates the negative inotropic effect of vagal stimulation on the left ventricle. Greater understanding of the physiological functions of intracardiac neuronal circuits may help in developing new strategies to treat disorders of cardiac contractility such as congestive heart failure.
ganglion|ganglion|1681|1712|1693|1700|that the CV ganglion selectively|

28|9405540.ab.1|M2
The amines dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), and octopamine (Oct) each elicit a distinctive motor pattern from a quiescent pyloric network in the lobster stomatogastric ganglion (STG).
ganglion|ganglion|138|175|168|175|in the lobster stomatogastric ganglion|
PMID- 9405540
TI  - Amine modulation of glutamate responses from pyloric motor neurons in lobster stomatogastric ganglion.  
AB  - The amines dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), and octopamine (Oct) each elicit a distinctive motor pattern from a quiescent pyloric network in the lobster stomatogastric ganglion (STG). We previously have demonstrated that these amines alter the synaptic strength at multiple, distributed sites within the pyloric network that could contribute to the amine-induced motor patterns. Here, we examined the postsynaptic contribution to these changes in synaptic strength by determining how the amines modify responses of pyloric motor neurons to glutamate (Glu), one of the network transmitters, applied iontophoretically into the STG neuropil. Dopamine reduced the Glu responses of the pyloric dilator (PD), ventricular dilator (VD), and inferior cardiac (IC) neurons and enhanced the Glu responses of the lateral pyloric (LP) and pyloric constrictor (PY) neurons. The only effect of 5-HT was to reduce the Glu response of the VD neuron. Oct enhanced the Glu responses of the LP and PY neurons but did not affect the PD, VD, and IC responses. We also examined amine effects on the depolarizing responses to iontophoresed acetylcholine (ACh) in the PD and VD and found that they paralleled the amine effects on Glu responses in these neurons. This suggests that amine modulation of PD and VD responses to Glu and ACh may be explained by general changes in the ionic conductance of these neurons. We compare our results with our earlier work describing amine effects on synaptic strength and input resistance to show that amines act at both pre- and postsynaptic sites to modify graded synaptic transmission in the pyloric network.
ganglion|ganglion|270|307|300|307|in the lobster stomatogastric ganglion|

29|9405559.ab.1|M2
The intrinsic rhythmicity of the spiny lobster stomatogastric ganglion (STG) is strongly influenced by the strengths of the graded synapses between identified cells within the neural network.
ganglion|ganglion|26|69|62|69|of the spiny lobster stomatogastric ganglion|
PMID- 9405559
TI  - Dopaminergic modulation of inhibitory glutamate receptors in the lobster stomatogastric ganglion.  
AB  - The intrinsic rhythmicity of the spiny lobster stomatogastric ganglion (STG) is strongly influenced by the strengths of the graded synapses between identified cells within the neural network. These synaptic strengths can be powerfully influenced by chemical neuromodulators such as dopamine and serotonin. Most of the intraganglionic chemical synapses in the STG are mediated by postsynaptic inhibitory glutamate receptors (IGluRs). To determine whether or not direct effects on these IGluRs contribute to the modulation of synaptic strength, unidentified STG neurons were extracted into primary culture and the effects of these aminergic neuromodulators on the glutamate-evoked membrane current were assessed. Dopamine (100 microM) reliably and significantly reduced the whole cell slope conductance of all IGluRs tested. Serotonin (20 microM) never affected the IGlu response, although it clearly altered other cellular membrane properties. Although all identified STG neurons may not conform to these observations, the data reveal a specific dopamine-activated modulatory pathway within cultured neurons that reduces IGluR slope conductance. The relationship between IGluR modulation and net synaptic modulation in situ contributes to an emerging model in which synaptic strengths can be multiply modulated at different functional sites, yielding a complex, distributed, and state-dependent regulatory structure.
ganglion|ganglion|153|196|189|196|of the spiny lobster stomatogastric ganglion|

30|9390980.ab.3|M2
To test the hypothesis that apnea-induced pressor responses are neurally mediated, we measured arterial pressure (photoelectric plethysmography), muscle sympathetic nerve activity (peroneal microneurography), arterial O2 saturation (pulse oximeter), and end-tidal CO2 tension (gas analyzer) during sustained Mueller maneuvers, intermittent Mueller maneuvers, and simple breath holds in six healthy humans before, during, and after ganglionic blockade with trimethaphan (3-4 mg/min, titrated to produce complete disappearance of sympathetic bursts from the neurogram).
ganglion|ganglionic|425|449|431|440|after ganglionic blockade|
PMID- 9390980
TI  - Neural mechanism of the pressor response to obstructive and nonobstructive apnea.  
AB  - Obstructive and nonobstructive apneas elicit substantial increases in muscle sympathetic nerve activity and arterial pressure. The time course of change in these variables suggests a causal relationship; however, mechanical influences, such as release of negative intrathoracic pressure and reinflation of the lungs, are potential contributors to the arterial pressure rise. To test the hypothesis that apnea-induced pressor responses are neurally mediated, we measured arterial pressure (photoelectric plethysmography), muscle sympathetic nerve activity (peroneal microneurography), arterial O2 saturation (pulse oximeter), and end-tidal CO2 tension (gas analyzer) during sustained Mueller maneuvers, intermittent Mueller maneuvers, and simple breath holds in six healthy humans before, during, and after ganglionic blockade with trimethaphan (3-4 mg/min, titrated to produce complete disappearance of sympathetic bursts from the neurogram). Ganglionic blockade abolished the pressor responses to sustained and intermittent Mueller maneuvers (-4 +/- 1 vs. +15 +/- 3 and 0 +/- 2 vs. +15 +/- 5 mmHg) and breath holds (0 +/- 3 vs. +11 +/- 3, all P < 0.05). We conclude that the acute pressor response to obstructive and nonobstructive voluntary apnea is sympathetically mediated.
ganglion|ganglionic|911|935|917|926|after ganglionic blockade|

31|9390980.ab.4|M2
Ganglionic blockade abolished the pressor responses to sustained and intermittent Mueller maneuvers (-4 +/- 1 vs. +15 +/- 3 and 0 +/- 2 vs. +15 +/- 5 mmHg) and breath holds (0 +/- 3 vs. +11 +/- 3, all P < 0.05).
ganglion|ganglionic|0|18|0|9|Ganglionic blockade|
PMID- 9390980
TI  - Neural mechanism of the pressor response to obstructive and nonobstructive apnea.  
AB  - Obstructive and nonobstructive apneas elicit substantial increases in muscle sympathetic nerve activity and arterial pressure. The time course of change in these variables suggests a causal relationship; however, mechanical influences, such as release of negative intrathoracic pressure and reinflation of the lungs, are potential contributors to the arterial pressure rise. To test the hypothesis that apnea-induced pressor responses are neurally mediated, we measured arterial pressure (photoelectric plethysmography), muscle sympathetic nerve activity (peroneal microneurography), arterial O2 saturation (pulse oximeter), and end-tidal CO2 tension (gas analyzer) during sustained Mueller maneuvers, intermittent Mueller maneuvers, and simple breath holds in six healthy humans before, during, and after ganglionic blockade with trimethaphan (3-4 mg/min, titrated to produce complete disappearance of sympathetic bursts from the neurogram).  Ganglionic blockade abolished the pressor responses to sustained and intermittent Mueller maneuvers (-4 +/- 1 vs. +15 +/- 3 and 0 +/- 2 vs. +15 +/- 5 mmHg) and breath holds (0 +/- 3 vs. +11 +/- 3, all P < 0.05). We conclude that the acute pressor response to obstructive and nonobstructive voluntary apnea is sympathetically mediated.
ganglion|ganglionic|1055|1073|1055|1064|Ganglionic blockade|

32|9437025.ab.2|M2
We focused on expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a marker for dopaminergic neurons, in developing petrosal ganglion (PG), nodose ganglion, and dorsal root ganglion neurons grown in the presence or absence of depolarizing concentrations of KCl.
ganglion|ganglion|90|120|113|120|in developing petrosal ganglion|
PMID- 9437025
TI  - A role for L-type calcium channels in developmental regulation of transmitter phenotype in primary sensory neurons.  
AB  - To examine the influence of activity-dependent cues on differentiation of primary afferent neurons, we investigated the short- and long-term effects of depolarization and calcium influx on expression of transmitter traits in sensory ganglion cell cultures. We focused on expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a marker for dopaminergic neurons, in developing petrosal ganglion (PG), nodose ganglion, and dorsal root ganglion neurons grown in the presence or absence of depolarizing concentrations of KCl. Exposure to 40 mM KCl increased the proportion of TH-immunoreactive neurons in all three ganglia in a developmentally regulated manner that corresponded to the temporal pattern of dopaminergic expression in vivo. PG neurons, for example, were most responsive to elevated KCl on embryonic day 16.5 (E16.5), the age at which the dopaminergic phenotype is first detectable in vivo. However, KCl was relatively ineffective at increasing TH expression in neonatal PG, indicating a critical period for induction of this phenotype by depolarization. Detailed analysis of TH induction in PG neurons demonstrated that, although N-type calcium channels carried the majority of the high voltage-activated calcium current, only L-type calcium channel blockade inhibited the effect of elevated KCl. Further studies revealed that after removal of high KCl, neurons remained sensitized to subsequent stimulation for >1 week. Specifically, cultures exposed to KCl beginning on E16.5 (the conditioning stimulus), then returned to control medium, and subsequently re-exposed to elevated KCl after 9 d (the test stimulus) contained fourfold more TH-positive neurons than did cultures exposed to the test stimulus alone. Moreover, blockade of L-type calcium channels during the conditioning stimulus completely abolished long-term potentiation of the TH response to elevated KCl. These findings demonstrate a novel role for L-type calcium channels in activity-dependent plasticity of transmitter expression in sensory neurons and indicate that exposure to depolarizing stimuli during early development may alter neuronal response properties at later ages.
ganglion|ganglion|492|522|515|522|in developing petrosal ganglion|

33|9427476.ti.1|M2
Transient somatostatin-immunoreactive ganglion cells in the developing rat retina.
ganglion|ganglion|0|51|38|45|Transient somatostatin-immunoreactive ganglion cells|
PMID- 9427476
TI  -  Transient somatostatin-immunoreactive ganglion cells in the developing rat retina.  
AB  - The peptide somatostatin (SRIF) is likely to play important roles in neuronal differentiation and maturation. In the mammalian retina, it is reported to be expressed by populations of amacrine and/or displaced amacrine cells and, in some species, by some ganglion cells. Previous studies have shown that in the rat retina the maturation of somatostatinergic systems encompasses late prenatal and early postnatal periods, suggesting a role of SRIF in maturative events of the retina. SRIF-expressing ganglion cells have not been reported in the rat retina at any developmental age. In the present study, we re-evaluated the postnatal development of SRIF-containing neurons of the rat retina focusing on the analysis of SRIF-containing cells in the ganglion cell layer (GCL), to test the possibility that SRIF is expressed by some ganglion cells during development. To this aim we combined immunocytochemical staining of SRIF-positive neurons with retrograde tracing of ganglion cell bodies through Fluoro-Gold injections into the superior colliculus. Double-labelling experiments revealed the presence of SRIF-containing ganglion cells at postnatal day (PND) 10. They accounted for 14% of the total SRIF-containing cells in the GCL. Such double-labelled cells were not observed either before (PND 7) or after (PND 15 and PND 45) this period. This transient expression of SRIF in retinal ganglion cells suggests that SRIF may be a factor regulating the maturation of retinocollicular projections in a restricted period of postnatal development.
ganglion|ganglion|22|73|60|67|Transient somatostatin-immunoreactive ganglion cells|

34|9401947.ab.9|M2
The difference in effect between the two blockers might relate to the duration of ganglionic blockade.
ganglion|ganglionic|79|101|82|91|of ganglionic blockade.|
PMID- 9401947
TI  - Effect of ganglionic blocking compounds on in-vivo fluid secretion in the rat small intestine.  
AB  - It is well-known that enteric, secreto-motor nerves mediate cholera toxin-induced fluid secretion in the rat small intestine. This notion is, in part, derived from experiments on anaesthetized animals in which the response to cholera toxin was antagonized by the ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonist, hexamethonium. In the current study, such anti-secretory action of ganglionic blocking compounds was analysed in an experiment designed to minimize any possible negative effect of general anaesthesia on intestinal secretion. Rats were anaesthetized with ether for 5-10 min, during which time a jejunal loop (10-12 cm) was constructed. The loop was challenged with one of the secretagogues, cholera toxin, prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or okadaic acid. Saline (control) or either of the ganglionic blockers, hexamethonium and chlorisondamine, was administered intravenously. The rats were killed 5 h (cholera toxin) or 1.5 h (PGE1 and okadaic acid) after challenge, and the amount of fluid accumulated in the loops was determined. Cholera toxin-induced secretion was unchanged by hexamethonium but reduced by approximately 80% by chlorisondamine. The difference in effect between the two blockers might relate to the duration of ganglionic blockade. Chlorisondamine blocked secretion induced by either PGE1 or okadaic acid by approximately 60%. It is suggested that the anti-secretory effect of ganglionic blocking compounds might be a result of blockade of secreto-motor nerves but other mechanisms, for example interference with haemodynamic factors, cannot be ruled out.
ganglion|ganglionic|1348|1370|1351|1360|of ganglionic blockade.|

35|9445016.ab.1|M2
Latent infection of mice with wild-type herpes simplex virus is established during an acute phase of ganglionic infection in which there is abundant viral replication and productive-cycle gene expression.
ganglion|ganglionic|98|120|101|110|of ganglionic infection|
PMID- 9445016
TI  - Accumulation of viral transcripts and DNA during establishment of latency by herpes simplex virus.  
AB  - Latent infection of mice with wild-type herpes simplex virus is established during an acute phase of ganglionic infection in which there is abundant viral replication and productive-cycle gene expression. Thymidine kinase-negative mutants establish latent infections but are severely impaired for acute ganglionic replication and productive-cycle gene expression. Indeed, by in situ hybridization assays, acute infection by these mutants resembles latency. To assess events during establishment of latency by wild-type and thymidine kinase-negative viruses, we quantified specific viral nucleic acid sequences in mouse trigeminal ganglia during acute ganglionic infection by using sensitive PCR-based assays. Through 32 h postinfection, viral DNA and transcripts representative of the three kinetic classes of productive-cycle genes accumulated to comparable levels in wild-type- and mutant-infected ganglia. At 48 and 72 h, although latency-associated transcripts accumulated to comparable levels in ganglia infected with wild-type or mutant virus, levels of DNA accumulating in wild-type-infected ganglia exceeded those in mutant-infected ganglia by 2 to 3 orders of magnitude. Coincident with this increase in DNA, wild-type-infected ganglia exhibited abundant expression of productive-cycle genes and high titers of infectious progeny. Nevertheless, the levels of productive-cycle RNAs expressed by mutant virus during acute infection greatly exceeded those expressed by wild-type virus during latency. The results thus distinguish acute infection of ganglia by a replication-compromised mutant from latent infection and may have implications for mechanisms of latency.
ganglion|ganglionic|226|248|229|238|of ganglionic infection|

36|9458757.ti.1|M2
Insulin secretion by gastrin-releasing peptide in mice: ganglionic versus direct islet effect.
ganglion|ganglionic|56|65|56|65|ganglionic|
PMID- 9458757
TI  - Insulin secretion by gastrin-releasing peptide in mice: ganglionic versus direct islet effect.  
AB  - Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) stimulates insulin secretion by a direct islet effect. In this study, we initially demonstrated, by immunocytochemistry of the mouse pancreas, GRP immunoreactive nerve fibers within exocrine tissue, islets, and intrapancreatic ganglia. A more pronounced GRP innervation was found in ganglia compared with in islets. We therefore studied whether indirect cholinergic mechanisms contribute to the insulinotropic action of GRP. In mice, the insulinotropic response to GRP (4.25 nmol/kg i.v.) was inhibited by the m3-selective, muscarinic receptor antagonist 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl piperidine methobromide (4-DAMP, 0.21 mol/kg; by 68%, P < 0.05) and by the ganglionic blocker hexamethonium (28 mol/kg; by 98%, P < 0.05). In contrast, in isolated islets, 4-DAMP or hexamethonium (10 or 100 microM) did not inhibit GRP (100 nM)-induced insulin secretion. Furthermore, afferent denervation by neonatal capsaicin did not affect the insulin response to GRP. We conclude that the insulinotropic effect of GRP in the mouse is mediated by both direct islet effects and through activation, at the ganglionic level, of postganglionic cholinergic nerves. In vivo, the indirect cholinergic mechanism predominates.
ganglion|ganglionic|77|86|77|86|ganglionic|

37|9460233.ti.1|M2
Ganglionic distribution of inputs and outputs of C-PR, a neuron involved in the generation of a food-induced arousal state in Aplysia [published erratum appears in Invert Neurosci 1997 Jun;3(1):71].
ganglion|ganglionic|0|22|0|9|Ganglionic distribution|
PMID- 9460233
TI  -  Ganglionic distribution of inputs and outputs of C-PR, a neuron involved in the generation of a food-induced arousal state in Aplysia [published erratum appears in Invert Neurosci 1997 Jun;3(1):71]  
AB  - Cerebral neuron C-PR is thought to play an important role in the appetitive phase of feeding behavior of Aplysia. Here, we describe the organization of input and output pathways of C-PR. Intracellular dye fills of C-PR revealed extensive arborization of processes within the cerebral and the pedal ganglia. Numerous varicosities of varying sizes may provide points of synaptic inputs and outputs. Blocking polysynaptic transmission in the cerebral ganglion eliminated the sensory inputs to C-PR from stimuli applied to the rhinophores or tentacles, indicating that this input is probably mediated by cerebral interneurons. Identified cerebral mechanoafferent sensory neurons polysynaptically excite C-PR. Stimulation of the eyes and rhinophores with light depresses C-PR spike activity, and this effect also appears to be mediated by cerebral interneurons. C-PR has bilateral synaptic actions on numerous pedal ganglion neurons, and also has effects on cerebral neurons, including the MCC, Bn cells, CBIs and the contralateral C-PR. Although the somata of these cerebral neurons are physically close to C-PR, experiments using high divalent cation-containing solutions and cutting of various connectives indicated that the effects of C-PR on other cerebral ganglion neurons (specifically Bn cells and the MCC) are mediated by interneurons that project back to the cerebral ganglion via the pedal and pleural connectives. The indirect pathways of C-PR to other cerebral neurons may help to ensure that consummatory motor programs are not activated until the appropriate appetitive motor programs, mediated by the pedal ganglia, have begun to be expressed.
ganglion|ganglionic|22|44|22|31|Ganglionic distribution|

38|9447257.ab.5|M2
Incisors and canines had a large and predominantly ipsilateral representation of Hrp-labelled neurones in the ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|103|118|110|117|in the ganglion.|
PMID- 9447257
TI  - Quantitative and somatotopic mapping of neurones in the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus and ganglion innervating teeth in monkey and baboon.  
AB  - Neurones of the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus (Mes V) and ganglion innervating the periodontium of incisor, canine and molar teeth in 10 monkeys and 10 baboons were counted and mapped using the horseradish peroxidase (Hrp), retrograde axonal transport method. Periodontal afferent neurones of all these teeth were well represented in the Mes V, although the incisors had a significantly higher number of labelled neurones than the canines or molars. The primary cell bodies of the periodontal afferents were located mainly in the caudal part of the ipsilateral Mes V from the level of the inferior colliculus to the floor of the fourth ventricle in the pons. The caudal periodontal Mes V neurones may be favourably located to make collateral connections with the trigeminal motor nucleus for jaw reflexes. Incisors and canines had a large and predominantly ipsilateral representation of Hrp-labelled neurones in the ganglion. In contrast, molar representation in the ganglion was sparse and all labelled neurones supplied ipsilateral teeth. The maxillary and mandibular teeth had a somatotopic distribution within the respective maxillary (middle) and mandibular (posterolateral) compartments of the trigeminal ganglion. It is suggested that the anterior teeth with greater connections to the Mes V and the ganglion may impart greater sensory perception and be involved in jaw reflexes to ensure a good occlusal relation during mastication, while the afferent connections of the molars may initiate complex jaw reflexes during the occlusal phase of mastication.
ganglion|ganglion|1083|1098|1090|1097|in the ganglion.|

39|9454619.ab.5|M2
The striatal precursor was selectively obtained from the lateral ganglionic eminence.
ganglion|ganglionic|48|84|65|74|from the lateral ganglionic eminence.|
PMID- 9454619
TI  - Safety of intrastriatal neurotransplantation for Huntington's disease patients.  
AB  - Fetal neural transplantation has been shown to be a feasible, safe, and according to a number of recent reports, effective treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). Fetal striatal transplantation may be as feasible, safe, and effective a treatment for Huntington's disease (HD), a disorder for which there is currently no effective treatment. This report describes our experience with fetal striatal transplantation to adult striatum in three HD patients. Three moderately advanced, nondemented HD patients received transplantation of fetal striatal tissue. The striatal precursor was selectively obtained from the lateral ganglionic eminence. Each patient received bilateral grafts from five to eight donors, placed into the caudate nucleus (one graft on each side) and the putamen (four grafts on each side). All three patients had HD as documented by family history, DNA heterozygosity (17-20 and 48-51 repeats), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealing striatal atrophy, and 2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography revealing striatal hypometabolism. All patients had been evaluated using the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale and appropriate neuropsychological tests for at least 3 months prior to transplantation. One year following transplantation, MRI of all three patients revealed that the grafts survived and grew within the striatum without displacing the surrounding tissue. No patients demonstrated adverse effects of the surgery or the associated cyclosporin immunosuppression, nor did any patient exhibit deterioration following the procedure. The limited experience provided by these three patients indicates that fetal tissue transplantation can be performed in HD patients without unexpected complications.
ganglion|ganglionic|713|749|730|739|from the lateral ganglionic eminence.|

40|8871239.ab.24|M2
One output of the buccal ganglion, the salivary nerve, also showed odor-elicited activation of an identified unit, the slow burster.
ganglion|ganglion|11|33|25|32|of the buccal ganglion,|
PMID- 8871239
TI  - Central and reflex neuronal responses elicited by odor in a terrestrial mollusk.  
AB  - 1. We studied the responses to odor of a central olfactory processing organ and subsequent central outputs in the terrestrial mollusk Limax maximus. We used extracellular recording techniques and optical recording from preparations stained with a voltage-sensitive dye to characterize network responses in the central organ and whole nerve recording to characterize central odor-elicited outputs. 2. The central olfactory organ, the procerebral (PC) lobe, is a highly interconnected network of local olfactory interneurons that receives input from primary olfactory receptors. In the absence of odor the PC network is known to exhibit periodic waves of excitation and inhibition at a frequency of approximately 0.7 Hz. Here we study how different odor inputs affect the intrinsic oscillatory dynamics. 3. Odor stimulation causes the propagation of electrical activity along the lobe to transiently switch from the state with propagating waves, with typical phase shifts of one half cycle along the lobe, to a state with few or no phase differences along the lobe. The collapse of the phase gradient typically occurs without spatially localized changes in the amplitude of the oscillation, at least on the scale of our optical resolution, approximately 0.1 times the length of the lobe. In some trials, however, we resolved spatial nonuniformities in the magnitude of excitation across the lobe. 4. The collapse of the phase gradient along the lobe in response to odor stimulation is robust on a trial-by-trial basis. Further, the change in phase gradient can occur with little or no change in the frequency of oscillation, as occasionally observed in response to weak odor stimulation. 5. Typically odor stimulation causes changes in the frequency of the oscillation. Two odors, one attractive (potato) and one repellent (amyl acetate), produced different patterns of change; potato induced a transient increase in frequency, whereas amyl acetate produced an initial decrease in frequency followed by a transient increase in frequency. We do not yet know whether these frequency change patterns are unique to these specific odors or to their behavioral meaning. 6. Previous work demonstrated direct connections from the PC lobe to the buccal and pedal ganglia, centers controlling feeding and locomotion, respectively. To establish a correlation between odor-induced changes in the PC lobe and activation of such centers and subsequently effector organs, we recorded from selected central connectives and peripheral nerve roots. The dependence of odor-elicited activity recorded in connectives and nerve roots on PC integrity was assessed by measurements of odor-elicited activity before and after PC ablation. 7. Odor stimulation caused activation of multiple units in the cerebrobuccal connective. One output of the buccal ganglion, the salivary nerve, also showed odor-elicited activation of an identified unit, the slow burster. The necessity of the PC lobe for activation of the slow burster was established by measurements of odor-elicited activity before and after PC ablation. 8. Odor stimulation also caused activation of multiple units in the buccal mass retractor nerve. Activation of a fraction of these units (3 of 10) was dependent on an intact PC lobe, like the slow burster neuron in the salivary nerve. 9. Our results clearly show how stimuli may lead to changes in the spatial-temporal pattern of activity in a central circuit without changing the overall average level of activity in that circuit.
ganglion|ganglion|2921|2943|2935|2942|of the buccal ganglion,|

41|9495736.ab.9|M2
Future developments in the treatment of detrusor overactivity are likely to occur in 3 categories: drugs that affect peripheral excitatory mechanisms, drugs that inhibit afferent mechanisms, and drugs that affect more central actions at either the ganglionic, spinal cord, or supraspinal level.
ganglion|ganglionic|244|271|248|257|the ganglionic, spinal cord,|
PMID- 9495736
TI  - Pharmacologic options for the overactive bladder.  
AB  - OBJECTIVES: To review the current pharmacologic options for treatment of the overactive bladder and to describe potential therapies on the horizon. METHODS: The literature on the clinical efficacy and safety of the currently available agents is described. RESULTS: According to the guidelines issued by the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR), anticholinergic agents should be the first-line pharmacologic therapy for patients with detrusor instability. Oxybutynin is the anticholinergic of choice for this indication, whereas propantheline is the second-line therapy. Although calcium antagonists have been investigated, the one such drug introduced for the treatment of overactive bladder (terodiline) was withdrawn from the market because of a risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Studies of potassium channel openers have found either a lack of clinical efficacy or an unacceptable level of side effects. Alpha-adrenergic antagonists may be useful for decreasing bladder overactivity in patients who have autonomous bladders as the result of conditions such as spinal cord injury. Tricyclic antidepressants (particularly imipramine) may be effective in decreasing bladder contractility, although the AHCPR guidelines caution that these drugs should be reserved for use in carefully evaluated patients. Future developments in the treatment of detrusor overactivity are likely to occur in 3 categories: drugs that affect peripheral excitatory mechanisms, drugs that inhibit afferent mechanisms, and drugs that affect more central actions at either the ganglionic, spinal cord, or supraspinal level. CONCLUSIONS: Although pharmacologic management of the overactive bladder has progressed little in the past 10 years, the future may hold the promise of more effective therapies.
ganglion|ganglionic|1635|1662|1639|1648|the ganglionic, spinal cord,|

42|9506701.ab.6|M2
Intrinsic HR, after propranolol and atropine or after ganglionic blockade with hexamethonium, was not different between TG and WT mice.
ganglion|ganglionic|48|72|54|63|after ganglionic blockade|
PMID- 9506701
TI  - Depressed heart rate variability and arterial baroreflex in conscious transgenic mice with overexpression of cardiac Gsalpha.  
AB  - Recently, we developed a transgenic mouse with cardiac-specific Gsalpha overexpression (TG mouse), which exhibits enhanced postsynaptic beta-adrenergic receptor signaling, ultimately developing a cardiomyopathy. The goal of the present study was to determine whether cardiac Gsalpha overexpression alters autonomic cardiovascular control, which could shed light on the mechanism responsible for the later development of cardiomyopathy. Mean arterial pressure was increased (P<.05) in conscious, chronically instrumented TG mice (123+/-1 mm Hg) compared with age-matched wild-type (WT) control mice (103+/-1 mm Hg). Respiratory frequency was increased (P<.05) in TG mice (269+/-26/min) compared with WT mice (210+/-20/min). By use of telemetric techniques, baseline heart rate (HR) was elevated (P<.05) in conscious, untethered TG mice (696+/-13 bpm) compared with WT mice (568+/-28 bpm). Intrinsic HR, after propranolol and atropine or after ganglionic blockade with hexamethonium, was not different between TG and WT mice. Both the normal minute-to-minute and circadian variations of HR observed in WT mice were markedly blunted in TG mice. HR variability was assessed by the time-domain and frequency-domain methods. At baseline, time-domain analysis indices were reduced (P<.05) in TG mice compared with WT mice. Although the low frequency (LF) component was higher (P<.05) than the high frequency (HF) component in WT mice, the LF component was less (P<.05) than the HF component in TG mice. In addition, arterial baroreflex regulation of HR was markedly blunted in TG mice in response to both nitroglycerin-induced hypotension and phenylephrine-induced hypertension. The reduced LF/HF ratio in TG mice was surprising in view of enhanced beta-adrenergic signaling and may be due to reduced neural tone secondary to the elevated arterial pressure or alterations in arterial baroreflex control. Dobutamine infusion in WT mice also resulted in depressed HR variability. The combination of elevated baseline HR, arterial pressure, and respiratory frequency suggests that enhanced beta-adrenergic signaling in TG mice results in reduced HR variability, in terms of both minute-to-minute variability and the lack of circadian variations in HR. The lack of normal HR variability in general and the failure of HR to decline, even during sleep, may actually be critical mechanisms contributing to the ultimate development of cardiomyopathy in these animals.
ganglion|ganglionic|1091|1115|1097|1106|after ganglionic blockade|

43|9482173.ab.11|M2
Patients with peripheral and ganglion type lesions were treated via an entirely extradural temporopolar approach.
ganglion|ganglion|29|49|29|36|ganglion type lesions|
PMID- 9482173
TI  - The surgical management of trigeminal neuromas.  
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Trigeminal neuromas are rare tumors that may involve any part of the nerve complex, including peripheral divisions of the nerve. These rare lesions are treated primarily surgically. We present our series of 38 patients who were treated surgically since 1981, with special emphasis on surgical approach. METHODS: We have surgically treated 38 patients with 39 trigeminal neuromas since 1981. This series of patients was reviewed with regard to clinical presentation, tumor characteristics, surgical approach, and outcome. RESULTS: Sixteen women and 22 men (mean age, 48 yr) all presented with some abnormality of trigeminal dysfunction. Twenty-eight patients presented with trigeminal hypesthesia, 10 with hypesthesia also had facial pain, 3 presented with only facial pain, and 7 presented with diplopia. Eighteen patients had tumors originating from the ganglion, nine from the posterior fossa nerve root, two from the ophthalmic division, and one from the mandibular division, and nine had tumors involving both posterior and middle fossae (dumbbell type). Eighteen tumors were large (>3 cm), 16 were medium sized (2-3 cm), and 5 were small (<2 cm). Tumor location was the prime determinant of surgical approach. Patients with peripheral and ganglion type lesions were treated via an entirely extradural temporopolar approach. Lesions confined to the posterior fossa were approached via a lateral suboccipital approach. Dumbbell-shaped lesions required a combined petrosal strategy. Total resection of tumor was accomplished in 30 patients. Three patients with subtotal resection displayed malignant histology. Postoperatively, 30 patients remained with some degree of trigeminal hypesthesia, two had facial pain (one persistent and one new), and five were left with total trigeminal anesthesia. Four patients were relieved of diplopia, five were relieved of headache, and two were relieved of ataxia. There were no perioperative deaths. CONCLUSION: Trigeminal neuroma is a surgically treatable disease that may be operated on, in many cases, via an entirely extradural approach. These lesions may be successfully resected with low morbidity and a very low rate of recurrence.
ganglion|ganglion|1332|1352|1332|1339|ganglion type lesions|

44|9501073.ab.7|M2
Furthermore, they propagate into the depth of the retina, suggesting that they are not restricted to ganglion and amacrine cells.
ganglion|ganglion|98|108|101|108|to ganglion|
PMID- 9501073
TI  - Spontaneous Ca2+ transients and their transmission in the developing chick retina.  
AB  - The development of the central nervous system is dependent on spontaneous action potentials and changes in [Ca2+]i occurring in neurons [1-4]. In the mammalian retina, waves of spontaneous electrical activity spread between retinal neurons, raising [Ca2+]i as they pass [5-7]. In the ferret retina, the first spontaneous Ca2+ waves have been reported at postnatal day 2 and are thought to result from the Ca2+ influx associated with bursts of action potentials seen in ganglion cells at this time [5-7]. These waves depend on depolarisation produced by voltage-gated sodium channels, but their initiation and/or propagation also depends upon nicotinic cholinergic synaptic transmission between amacrine cells and ganglion cells [8]. Here, we report contrasting results for the chick retina where Ca2+ transients are seen at times before retinal synapse formation but when there are extensive networks of gap junctions. These Ca2+ transients do not require nicotinic cholinergic transmission but are modulated by acetylcholine (ACh), dopamine and glycine. Furthermore, they propagate into the depth of the retina, suggesting that they are not restricted to ganglion and amacrine cells. The transients are abolished by the gap-junctional blocker octanol. Thus, the Ca2+ transients seen early in chick retinal development are triggered and propagate in the absence of synapses by a mechanism that involves several neurotransmitters and gap junctions.
ganglion|ganglion|1265|1275|1268|1275|to ganglion|

45|9481688.ab.25|M2
The abolition by nifedipine and the negligible effect of ganglionic blockade show that above 0.0034 Hz it is almost exclusively due to autoregulation by the kidney itself.
ganglion|ganglionic|54|75|57|66|of ganglionic blockade|
PMID- 9481688
TI  - Autoregulation of renal blood flow in the conscious dog and the contribution of the tubuloglomerular feedback.  
AB  - 1. The aim of this study was to investigate the autoregulation of renal blood flow under physiological conditions, when challenged by the normal pressure fluctuations, and the contribution of the tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF). 2. The transfer function between 0.0018 and 0.5 Hz was calculated from the spontaneous fluctuations in renal arterial blood pressure (RABP) and renal blood flow (RBF) in conscious resting dogs. The response of RBF to stepwise artificially induced reductions in RABP was also studied (stepwise autoregulation). 3. Under control conditions (n = 12 dogs), the gain of the transfer function started to decrease, indicating improving autoregulation, below 0.06-0.15 Hz (t = 7-17 s). At 0.027 Hz a prominent peak of high gain was found. Below 0.01 Hz (t > 100 s), the gain reached a minimum (maximal autoregulation) of -6.3 +/- 0.6 dB. The stepwise autoregulation (n = 4) was much stronger (-19.5 dB). The time delay of the transfer function was remarkably constant from 0.03 to 0.08 Hz (high frequency (HF) range) at 1.7s and from 0.0034 to 0.01 Hz (low frequency) (LF) range) at 14.3 s, respectively. 4. Nifedipine, infused into the renal artery, abolished the stepwise autoregulation (-2.0 +/- 1.1 dB, n = 3). The gain of the transfer function (n = 4) remained high down to 0.0034 Hz; in the LF range it was higher than in the control (0.3 +/- 1.0 dB, P < 0.05). The time delay in the HF range was reduced to 0.5 s (P < 0.05). 5. After ganglionic blockade (n = 7) no major changes in the transfer function were observed. 6. Under furosemide (frusemide) (40 mg + 10 MG h-1 or 300 mg + 300 mg h-1 i.v..) the stepwise autoregulation was impaired to -7.8 +/- 0.3 or 6.7 +/- 1.9 dB, respectively (n = 4). In the transfer function (n = 7 or n = 4) the peak at 0.027 Hz was abolished. The delay in the LF range was reduced to -1.1 or -1.6 s, respectively. The transfer gain in the LF range (-5.5 +/- 1.2 or -3.8 +/- 0.8 dB, respectively) did not differ from the control but was smaller than that under nifedipine (P < 0.05). 7. It is concluded that the ample capacity for regulation of RBF is only partially employed under physiological conditions. The abolition by nifedipine and the negligible effect of ganglionic blockade show that above 0.0034 Hz it is almost exclusively due to autoregulation by the kidney itself. TGF contributes to the maximum autoregulatory capacity, but it is not required for the level of autoregulation expended under physiological conditions. Around 0.027 Hz, TGF even reduces the degree of autoregulation.
ganglion|ganglionic|2362|2383|2365|2374|of ganglionic blockade|

46|9498058.ab.3|M2
Morphologically the tumor largely consisted of a medulloblastoma component but displayed glial, myoblastic and ganglionic differentiation on light microscopic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination.
ganglion|ganglionic|111|136|111|120|ganglionic differentiation|
PMID- 9498058
TI  - Medullomyoblastoma: a histological, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural and molecular genetic study.  
AB  - Medullomyoblastoma is a rare variant of medulloblastoma containing myoblastic elements. A 9-year-old boy developed a cerebellar syndrome and signs of increased intracranial pressure, the cause of which was a tumor of the cerebellar vermis measuring 7 x 4.5 x 4.5 cm. Morphologically the tumor largely consisted of a medulloblastoma component but displayed glial, myoblastic and ganglionic differentiation on light microscopic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination. The non-enhancing rim of the tumor on magnetic resonance imaging showed extensive ganglionic differentiation. The tumor did not express bcl-2, c-myc, or c-erb-B2 oncoproteins and was negative for the p53 gene product. On molecular genetic studies, the tumor did not show allelic loss on chromosome loci, frequently altered in medulloblastomas, such as 17p, 1q and 9q.
ganglion|ganglionic|509|534|509|518|ganglionic differentiation|

47|9498058.ab.4|M2
The non-enhancing rim of the tumor on magnetic resonance imaging showed extensive ganglionic differentiation.
ganglion|ganglionic|72|108|82|91|extensive ganglionic differentiation.|
PMID- 9498058
TI  - Medullomyoblastoma: a histological, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural and molecular genetic study.  
AB  - Medullomyoblastoma is a rare variant of medulloblastoma containing myoblastic elements. A 9-year-old boy developed a cerebellar syndrome and signs of increased intracranial pressure, the cause of which was a tumor of the cerebellar vermis measuring 7 x 4.5 x 4.5 cm. Morphologically the tumor largely consisted of a medulloblastoma component but displayed glial, myoblastic and ganglionic differentiation on light microscopic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination. The non-enhancing rim of the tumor on magnetic resonance imaging showed extensive ganglionic differentiation. The tumor did not express bcl-2, c-myc, or c-erb-B2 oncoproteins and was negative for the p53 gene product. On molecular genetic studies, the tumor did not show allelic loss on chromosome loci, frequently altered in medulloblastomas, such as 17p, 1q and 9q.
ganglion|ganglionic|683|719|693|702|extensive ganglionic differentiation.|

48|9507266.ab.14|M1
The performance of a concomitant surgical procedure, the anatomic region of the ganglion, or type of postoperative immobilization did not appear to affect the outcome.
ganglion|ganglion|73|88|80|87|of the ganglion,|
PMID- 9507266
TI  - Ganglion cysts of the lower extremity: an analysis of 54 cases and review of the literature.  
AB  - This article reviews 54 consecutive patients with lower extremity ganglion cysts that were surgically removed and histologically confirmed at the Hospital for Special Surgery from 1981 to 1993. Lower extremity ganglia were more common among women. Patients' ages ranged from 13 to 80 years, with the fifth and sixth decades being the most common. Size of the cysts ranged from 3 cm to 10 cm (average: 2.9 cm). Thirty-six (67%) patients had ganglion cysts of the foot and ankle, and 18 (33%) patients had ganglion cysts of the knee area. Four (7%) patients had intraosseous ganglia located in the proximal tibia, patella, and the first metatarsal head. Follow-up data of 40 (74%) patients at an average of 5.9 years (range: 1 to 12.5 years) were obtained. Satisfaction was reported by 83% of patients. Recurrence was seen in 10% of patients, and a report of no or mild pain was given by 86% of the group. Patients who underwent revision ganglion excision had inferior results. Only 25% reported satisfaction and 50% reported no or mild pain. Patients who underwent curettage of an intraosseous ganglion appeared to have superior results. All patients reported satisfaction and no or mild pain. The performance of a concomitant surgical procedure, the anatomic region of the ganglion, or type of postoperative immobilization did not appear to affect the outcome.
ganglion|ganglion|1388|1403|1395|1402|of the ganglion,|

49|9497402.ab.7|M2
This effect was observed in isolated cell culture and in the intact ganglion; it was blocked by a selective PKC inhibitor (chelerythrine).
ganglion|ganglion|54|75|68|75|in the intact ganglion|
PMID- 9497402
TI  - Long-term changes in excitability induced by protein kinase C activation in Aplysia sensory neurons.  
AB  - Protein kinases A (PKA) and C (PKC) play a central role as intracellular transducers during simple forms of learning in Aplysia. These two proteins seem to cooperate in mediating the different forms of plasticity underlying behavioral modifications of defensive reflexes in a state- and time-dependent manner. Although short- and long-term changes in the synaptic efficacy of the connections between mechanosensory neurons and motoneurons of the reflex have been well characterized, there is also a distinct intermediate phase of plasticity that is not as well understood. Biochemical and physiological experiments have suggested a role for PKC in the induction and expression of this form of facilitation. In this report, we demonstrate that PKC activation can induce both intermediate- and long-term changes in the excitability of sensory neurons (SNs). Short application of 4beta-phorbol ester 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBU), a potent activator of PKC, produced a long-lasting increase in the number of spikes fired by SNs in response to depolarizing current pulses. This effect was observed in isolated cell culture and in the intact ganglion; it was blocked by a selective PKC inhibitor (chelerythrine). Interestingly, the increase in excitability measured at an intermediate-term time point (3 h) after treatment was independent of protein synthesis, while it was disrupted at the long-term (24 h) time point by the general protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin. In addition to suggesting that PKC as well as PKA are involved in long-lasting excitability changes, these findings support the idea that memory formation involves multiple stages that are mechanistically distinct at the biochemical level.
ganglion|ganglion|1247|1268|1261|1268|in the intact ganglion|

50|9502213.ab.1|M2
The presence of a synaptic connection between neuron L7 of the abdominal ganglion and branchial ganglionic neurons (BGNs) was reexamined by means of electrophysiology and fluorescent microscopy using three Aplysia species.
ganglion|ganglionic|86|113|96|105|branchial ganglionic neurons|
PMID- 9502213
TI  - A reexamination of the synaptic connection between neuron L7 of the abdominal ganglion and neurons of the branchial ganglion in Aplysia californica, A. kurodai and A. juliana.  
AB  - The presence of a synaptic connection between neuron L7 of the abdominal ganglion and branchial ganglionic neurons (BGNs) was reexamined by means of electrophysiology and fluorescent microscopy using three Aplysia species. We succeeded in recording excitatory postsynaptic potentials produced in a BGN, which followed impulses of L7 one-to-one with a constant latency, even in A. californica as well as in A. kurodai and A. juliana. Dye-injection revealed that fine collaterals extended from a major branch of L7 to the branchial ganglion and arborized in neuropil of the ganglion. The results show that L7 in the three species has a dual function as a motor neuron and as an interneuron for the gill.
ganglion|ganglionic|291|318|301|310|branchial ganglionic neurons|

51|9528226.ab.7|M2
In axillary hyperhidrosis the forth ganglion was included.
ganglion|ganglion|26|43|36|43|the forth ganglion|
PMID- 9528226
TI  - [Surgical technique of endoscopic transthoracic sympathicotomy: axillary approach]  
AB  - A total of 181 endoscopic transthoracic sympathicotomy were performed at our hospital from December, 1992 to March, 1997. After single-lumen endotracheal intubation for general anesthesia, the patient was placed in half sitting position. A small (1 cm) incision was made in the anterior axillary line through the third intercostal space and an apical pneumothorax was created by insufflation of 1.8 L of CO2 in the pleural cavity through a Surgineedle. A 24 Fr. urological transurethral electroresectoscope was introduced through the same incision. The sympathetic chain could be observed through parietal pleura riding on the costovertebral junctions. In palmar hyperhidrosis the second and third thoracic sympathetic ganglia were electrocoagulated. In axillary hyperhidrosis the forth ganglion was included. The lung was expanded by limiting expiration and sucking CO2. The operation was repeated on the other side. Endoscopic transthoracic sympathicotomy was an efficient, safe and low invasive surgical procedure for the treatment of palmar, axillary hyperhidrosis, Raynaud's disease and Buerger disease.
ganglion|ganglion|889|906|899|906|the forth ganglion|

52|9531136.ab.6|M1
All ganglion communicated with the tibial tunnel.
ganglion|ganglion|0|11|4|11|All ganglion|
PMID- 9531136
TI  - Pretibial cyst formation after anterior cruciate ligament surgery with soft tissue autografts.  
AB  - Four cases of subcutaneous pretibial ganglion, with direct communication to the tibial tunnel after autologous reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) with hamstrings or iliotibial band, are reported. Tibial graft fixation was with a staple in three cases, and with a screw and soft tissue washer in one. The average time to ganglion development was 44 months, and all occurred more than 2 years after ACL surgery. At the time of cyst development, no patient had subjective or objective knee instability. No patient had evidence of tibial tunnel enlargement.  All ganglion communicated with the tibial tunnel. This communication was shown with magnetic resonance imaging in two cases, which showed the origin at the joint. Three patients elected to have the ganglion removed; in each of these there was a direct communication with the tibial tunnel. Additionally, hardware was removed in all cases, and local autologous bone grafting of the tibial tunnel aperture was done in two. Minimum follow-up after surgical excision was 2 years, without evidence of recurrence.
ganglion|ganglion|699|710|703|710|All ganglion|

53|9543710.ab.6|M2
These terminals come from perikarya situated in the lateral neurosecretory cells in the pars lateralis and in the subesophageal ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|107|136|128|135|in the subesophageal ganglion.|
PMID- 9543710
TI  - Localization of allatostatin-immunoreactive material in the central nervous system, stomatogastric nervous system, and gut of the cockroach Blattella germanica.  
AB  - Immunoreactivity against peptides of the allatostatin family having a typical YXFGL-NH2 C-terminus has been localized in different areas of the central nervous system, stomatogastric nervous system and gut of the cockroach Blattella germanica. In the protocerebrum, the most characteristic immunoreactive perikarya are situated in the lateral and median neurosecretory cell groups. Immunoreactive median neurosecretory cells send their axons around the circumesophageal connectives to form arborizations in the anterior neuropil of the tritocerebrum. A group of cells in the lateral aspect of the tritocerebrum project to the antennal lobes in the deutocerebrum, where immunoreactive arborizations can be seen in the periphery of individual glomeruli. Nerve terminals were shown in the corpora allata. These terminals come from perikarya situated in the lateral neurosecretory cells in the pars lateralis and in the subesophageal ganglion. Immunoreactive axons from median neurosecretory cells and from cells positioned in the anteriormost part of the tritocerebrum enter together in the stomatogastric nervous system and innervate foregut and midgut, especially the crop and the valve between the crop and the midgut. The hindgut is innervated by neurons whose perikarya are located in the last abdominal ganglion. Besides immunoreactivity in neurons, allatostatin-immunoreactive material is present in endocrine cells distributed within the whole midgut epithelium. Possible functions for these peptides according to their localization are discussed.
ganglion|ganglion|1099|1128|1120|1127|in the subesophageal ganglion.|

54|9505323.ab.2|M2
A rectal biopsy demonstrated immaturity of the neuronal cells in the enteral ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|62|85|77|84|in the enteral ganglion.|
PMID- 9505323
TI  - The application of radio-opaque markers prior to ileostomy in an infant with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction: report of a case.  
AB  - We report the case of a 6-month-old boy who developed chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction soon after birth. A rectal biopsy demonstrated immaturity of the neuronal cells in the enteral ganglion. His clinical course was stressful, with remission and exacerbation despite conservative treatment with daily bowel irrigation, prokinetic agents, and parenteral nutrition. Since the infant developed serious enterocolitis associated with the increased severity of his bowel obstruction, and no substantial gain in body weight was observed, a loop-ileostomy was performed based on X-ray findings with radio-opaque markers, which were employed to evaluate the whole gut transit time. The radio-opaque markers proved extremely useful for determining which loop of the ileum should be utilized for the ileostomy.
ganglion|ganglion|335|358|350|357|in the enteral ganglion.|

55|9522371.ab.10|M2
Expression of JunB showed a dramatic increase within 2 h in the whole ganglion, but disappeared within the following hours.
ganglion|ganglion|57|78|70|77|in the whole ganglion,|
PMID- 9522371
TI  - Expression of Jun, Fos, and ATF-2 proteins in axotomized explanted and cultured adult rat dorsal root ganglia.  
AB  - The expression of c-Jun, JunB, JunD, c-Fos and ATF-2 transcription factors was studied in L4/L5 dorsal root ganglion neurons of adult rats, in order to determine the extent to know to which extend the expression of transcription factors in vitro parallels the pathophysiological expression in vivo. First, dorsal root ganglia were dissociated and cultured for up to 15 days in vitro (culture). Second, the dorsal root and the peripheral nerve fibres were transected close at the dorsal root ganglia, and the completely axotomized dorsal root ganglia were kept in artificial cerebrospinal fluid for up to 24 h. This procedure (explantation) preserves the intraganglionic morphology intact. Culture evoked a persistent expression of c-Jun and JunD in the majority of small neurons independent on neurite extension, In contrast, the number of large neurons with c-Jun decreased and with JunD increased with incubation time. JunB and c-Fos, which were also visible in the majority of neurons, strongly decreased with culture time in both small and large neurons. ATF-2 was visible in the vast majority of neurons and did not change during the observation period. Incubation with brain-derived neurotrophic factor for 15 days reduced JunB expression and raised c-Fos expression, but did not affect c-Jun or JunD labelings. Explantation of dorsal root ganglia evoked a dramatic and rapid induction of c-Jun in neurons located in the periphery of the ganglia, an area that showed prominent apoptosis as visualized by transferase dUTP nick end-labelling, followed by a delayed increase in neurons of the central parts of dorsal root ganglia. Expression of JunB showed a dramatic increase within 2 h in the whole ganglion, but disappeared within the following hours. JunD dropped from its basal levels within 4 h and was almost absent after 8 h. c-Fos did not appear until 6 h, when transferase dUTP nick end-labelling also became detectable, and remained visible in a rather small number of neurons. As with culture, incubation of explanted dorsal root ganglia with brain-derived neurotrophic factor prevented the initial rise in JunB, accelerated and enhanced c-Fos expression, but did not alter c-Jun and JunD expression. Immunoreactivity of ATF-2 declined or disappeared in those dorsal root ganglia compartments that showed a rise in c-Jun and transferase dUTP nick end-labelling. These findings demonstrate that inducible transcription factors such as Jun and Fos proteins are differentially expressed in adult neurons in vitro when compared to pathophysiological conditions in vivo such as nerve fibre transection (axotomy or rhizotomy). Moreover, the comparison between the explantation and culture experiments suggests that it is the complete axotomy of neurons that provokes those expression patterns found in neuronal cultures of adult neurons. The rapid and persisting expression of c-Jun during neurite extension and apoptosis points at the activation of a pivotal program that might be determined by the presence or absence of ATF-2 and that is involved in regeneration or degeneration.
ganglion|ganglion|1831|1852|1844|1851|in the whole ganglion,|

56|9522377.ab.2|M2
The electrical activity of the ganglionic neurons was recorded using intracellular recording techniques.
ganglion|ganglionic|24|48|31|40|of the ganglionic neurons|
PMID- 9522377
TI  - Nerve-induced release of nitric oxide exerts dual effects on nicotinic transmission within the coeliac ganglion in the rabbit.  
AB  - The involvement of nitric oxide in the modulation of nicotinic activation was investigated in vitro in isolated rabbit coeliac ganglion. The electrical activity of the ganglionic neurons was recorded using intracellular recording techniques. When a train of pulses of supramaximum intensity was applied to the splanchnic nerves, gradual depression of fast nicotinic activation occurred: the pulses do not systematically elicit action potentials, but very often elicit excitatory postsynaptic potentials only. This phenomenon appeared between 15 and 20 Hz and increased with the frequency of stimulation. It was not related to any change in the membrane potential of the ganglionic neurons. For a given frequency, the depression appeared progressively and it was particularly strong at the end of the train. The use of pharmacological agents that interfere with the nitric oxide pathway, such as L-arginine (precursor of nitric oxide), D-arginine (non-precursor of nitric oxide) N(omega_-nitro-L-arginine and N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase), and 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (nitric oxide scavenger), demonstrated that nitric oxide modulated this depression phenomenon by exerting a dual effect on the nicotinic activation, i.e. facilitation or inhibition. Agents interfering with the guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate pathway, such as oxadiazolo[4,3-a] quinoxalin-1-one (selective inhibitor of the nitric oxide-activated soluble guanylate cyclase) and zaprinast (selective inhibitor of the phosphodiesterases involved in the guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate pathway) demonstrated that only the facilitatory effect of nitric oxide on the nicotinic activation was mediated through the guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate pathway. The mechanism sustaining the inhibitory effect remains to be determined. By modulating the nicotinic activation, nitric oxide plays a role in the integrative properties of the prevertebral ganglia. This opens new perspectives with regard to the control of visceral functions by the prevertebral level of regulation.
ganglion|ganglionic|317|341|324|333|of the ganglionic neurons|

57|9504177.ab.6|M2
The present findings indicate that intrapharyngeal ganglionic neurons are mainly parasympathetic and partially sympathetic in nature.
ganglion|ganglionic|30|68|51|60|that intrapharyngeal ganglionic neurons|
PMID- 9504177
TI  - Morphological study of the intrapharyngeal ganglia and ganglionic neurons in cats.  
AB  - The distribution, number and nature of intrapharyngeal ganglia and their neurons in cats were examined by means of serial sections, histochemical and immunohistochemical methods. Six to eight large ganglia around the palatine tonsils and five to eight small ganglia in the laterodorsal wall of pharyngeal mucous membrane were observed. The intrapharyngeal ganglionic neuron (25-30 microns in diameter) totalled 600-800 and more than 80% of them were located around the palatine tonsils. The ganglionic neurons were acetylcholinesterase reaction positive. On immunohistochemistry, many choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive neurons and a few tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerve cells were found, but no calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive or substance P-immunoreactive neurons were recognized in the ganglion. The present findings indicate that intrapharyngeal ganglionic neurons are mainly parasympathetic and partially sympathetic in nature.
ganglion|ganglionic|1024|1062|1045|1054|that intrapharyngeal ganglionic neurons|

58|9514524.ab.7|M2
From these data, we propose that accumulation of glial-derived NGF by adult sensory neurons and its putative release into the ganglionic environment induce the directional growth of sympathetic axons to the source of NGF, namely, the cell bodies of primary sensory neurons.
ganglion|ganglionic|117|147|126|135|into the ganglionic environment|
PMID- 9514524
TI  - Sympathetic axons surround nerve growth factor-immunoreactive trigeminal neurons: observations in mice overexpressing nerve growth factor.  
AB  - It has been postulated that the aberrant projection of sympathetic axons to individual primary sensory neurons may provide the morphological basis for pain-related behaviors in rat models of chronic pain syndrome. Since nerve growth factor (NGF) can elicit the collateral sprouting of noradrenergic sympathetic terminals, it might be predicted that NGF plays a role in mediating the sprouting of sympathetic axons into sensory ganglia. Using a line of transgenic mice overexpressing NGF among glial cells, it was first found that trigeminal ganglia from adult transgenic mice possessed significantly higher levels of NGF protein in comparison to age-matched wild-type mice; as well, detectable levels of NGF mRNA transgene expression were present in both the ganglia and brain stem. Within the trigeminal ganglia, a small proportion of the sensory neuronal population stained immunohistochemically for NGF; a higher percentage of NGF-positive neurons was evident in transgenic mice. New sympathetic axons extended into the trigeminal ganglia of transgenic mice only and formed perineuronal plexuses surrounding only those neurons immunostained for NGF. In addition, such plexuses were accompanied by glial processes from nonmyelinating Schwann cells. From these data, we propose that accumulation of glial-derived NGF by adult sensory neurons and its putative release into the ganglionic environment induce the directional growth of sympathetic axons to the source of NGF, namely, the cell bodies of primary sensory neurons.
ganglion|ganglionic|1536|1566|1545|1554|into the ganglionic environment|

59|9533418.ab.7|M2
Epinephrine and norepinephrine levels in rats of separate groups of unanesthetized control, sympathectomized and ganglion-blocked animals were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography from an arterial blood sample, the results indicating drastic reductions in levels of both catecholamines in the ganglion-blocked (but not in the sympathectomized) rats compared with those in the control rats.
ganglion|ganglion|113|136|113|120|ganglion-blocked animals|
PMID- 9533418
TI  - Lack of autonomic contributions to tonic nitric oxide-mediated vasodilatation in unanesthetized free-moving rats [see comments]  
AB  - OBJECTIVE: To clarify the controversial issue of whether autonomic influences modulate vascular nitric oxide-mediated vasodilatation or even directly contribute to production of nitric oxide (NO) via nitroxidergic fibers. METHODS: Chronic venous and arterial catheters were implanted in Wistar-Kyoto rats (n = 65) for continuous blood pressure measurement, drug administration and blood sampling. Tonic NO-dependent vasodilatation in the conscious free-moving animal was evaluated as the pressor response to inhibition of NO synthesis by intravenous L-monomethylarginine (a 100 mg/kg intravenous bolus plus 0.5 mg/kg per min infusion for 30 min). Experiments were performed under control conditions, chemical sympathectomy by 6-hydroxy-dopamine, ganglionic blockade by hexamethonium, and surgical denervation of sino-aortic baroreceptors. RESULTS: Baseline mean arterial pressure was 100+/-4 mmHg (mean +/- SEM) in control rats and 73+/-3, 62+/-5, and 105+/-10 mmHg in sympathectomized, ganglion-blocked, and denervated rats, respectively. The peak increase in mean arterial pressure after administration of L-monomethylarginine was 38+/-3 mmHg in control rats and 51+/-3, 50+/-6, and 63+/-10 mmHg in sympathectomized, ganglion-blocked, and denervated rats, respectively. Epinephrine and norepinephrine levels in rats of separate groups of unanesthetized control, sympathectomized and ganglion-blocked animals were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography from an arterial blood sample, the results indicating drastic reductions in levels of both catecholamines in the ganglion-blocked (but not in the sympathectomized) rats compared with those in the control rats. CONCLUSIONS: Tonic NO-dependent vasodilatation can normally be maintained in the unanesthetized unrestrained rat irrespective of autonomic or humoral adrenergic influences.
ganglion|ganglion|1542|1565|1542|1549|ganglion-blocked animals|

60|9541984.ab.2|M2
The ganglion was a greyish fusiform structure, averaging 15-20 mm in length, 4-6 mm in width and 3 mm in thickness, located on the rostro-lateral surface of the longus capitis and covered by the mandibular gland.
ganglion|ganglion|0|11|4|11|The ganglion|
PMID- 9541984
TI  - The gross anatomy of the cranial cervical ganglion and its branches in the Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus).  
AB  - Ten specimens of the head and neck of the Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) were dissected to study the situation, arrangement and branches of the cranial cervical ganglion (ganglion cervicale craniale).  The ganglion was a greyish fusiform structure, averaging 15-20 mm in length, 4-6 mm in width and 3 mm in thickness, located on the rostro-lateral surface of the longus capitis and covered by the mandibular gland. The branches of the cranial cervical ganglion included the internal carotid nerve, external carotid nerve, jugular nerve and the branches connecting with the glossopharyngeal, vagus, hypoglossal and first cervical nerves.
ganglion|ganglion|348|359|352|359|The ganglion|

61|9567409.ab.12|M2
In case of supra-ganglionic complete lesions, we used the accessory spinal nerve, the motor branches of the cervical plexus and the intercostal nerves.
ganglion|ganglionic|8|44|17|26|of supra-ganglionic complete lesions,|
PMID- 9567409
TI  - [Traumatic lesions of the brachial plexus]  
AB  - The diagnosis and treatment of brachial plexus lesions have developed remarkably in recent decades. The knowledge of anatomy and histology, the physiology of lesions, and the definition of ideal conditions for nervous regeneration created the basic support, which caused the use of microsurgery to improve the surgical results of these lesions. On the other hand, patients used to be seen by specialists from different fields, no one saw the need to join efforts in order to achieve a multidisciplinary approach. These lesions essentially affect young males who belong to a social and professional environment in which motorcycles are usually used as their main means of transport. The correct diagnosis of this histology is based on a clinical analysis of each case, which requires separate evaluations in some instances. Only thus is it possible to establish a therapeutic plan in which physiotherapy plays a permanent and vital role. Complementary studies always included electromyography, which seems to be a useful guide to the progression of the lesions. For operated cases, cervical myelography, ultrasonography and magnetic resonance seem to be a useful aid to characterise the lesions and define the prognosis. The therapeutic decisions must be early and convenient. We found all types of nervous lesions and performed various types of surgery with microsurgery techniques, mostly using nerve grafts. In the case of infra-ganglion lesions. nerve grafts were used to neurotize peripheral nerves from proximal stumps. In case of supra-ganglionic complete lesions, we used the accessory spinal nerve, the motor branches of the cervical plexus and the intercostal nerves. In relation to peripheral neurolization, we tried to establish a certain order, beginning with reinnervation of muscles responsible for proximal function.
ganglion|ganglionic|1605|1641|1614|1623|of supra-ganglionic complete lesions,|

62|9557969.ab.4|M2
Numerous segments of the initial lymphatics, with their blind endings at the apical parts, tended to gather toward the ganglion and run along the primary nerve strands.
ganglion|ganglion|108|126|119|126|toward the ganglion|
PMID- 9557969
TI  - Lymphatic network and nerve plexus in the myenteric layer of the monkey jejunum: a topographic study using an enzyme-histochemical method.  
AB  - The topographic relationship between the lymphatic network and the nerve plexus in the myenteric layer of the monkey jejunum was studied by an enzyme-histochemical method. Identification of the lymphatics was achieved by a 5'-nucleotidase staining method, and the enteric neural components were visualized by acetylcholinesterase staining. A well-developed lymphatic network and a dense nerve plexus were demonstrated throughout the myenteric layer. Numerous segments of the initial lymphatics, with their blind endings at the apical parts, tended to gather toward the ganglion and run along the primary nerve strands. Elements of the tissue interstitium separated the lymphatics from the enteric nerves. Nerve terminals were often located closely beneath the endothelium of the initial lymphatics and were exposed to the subendothelial tissue on the side facing the abluminal surface of the lymphatic endothelium. These findings suggest that the lymph flow in the initial lymphatics might be regulated by the enteric nervous system, and that the transport of tissue fluid by the lymphatics might serve as a suitable microenvironment for the enteric nerves.
ganglion|ganglion|726|744|737|744|toward the ganglion|

63|9526069.ab.5|M2
An anterograde tracer was injected into the NTS, and a retrograde tracer into the AV ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|73|93|85|92|into the AV ganglion.|
PMID- 9526069
TI  - Ultrastructural circuitry of cardiorespiratory reflexes: there is a monosynaptic path between the nucleus of the solitary tract and vagal preganglionic motoneurons controlling atrioventricular conduction in the cat.  
AB  - We have tested the hypothesis: (1) that presumptive negative dromotropic vagal preganglionic neurons in the ventrolateral nucleus ambiguus (NA-VL) can be selectively labelled from the heart, by injecting one of two fluorescent tracers into the two intracardiac ganglia which independently control sino-atrial (SA) rate or atrioventricular (AV) conduction; i.e., the SA and AV ganglia, respectively. The NA-VL was examined for the presence of single and/or double labelled cells. Over 91% of vagal preganglionic neurons in the NA-VL projecting to either intracardiac ganglion did not project to the second ganglion. Consequently, we also tested the hypothesis: (2) that there is a monosynaptic connection between neurons of the medial, and/or dorsolateral nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), rostral to obex, and negative dromotropic neurons in the NA-VL. An anterograde tracer was injected into the NTS, and a retrograde tracer into the AV ganglion. The anterograde marker was found in both myelinated and unmyelinated axons in the NA-VL, as well as in nerve terminals. Axo-somatic and axo-dendritic synapses were detected between terminals labelled from the NTS, and retrogradely labelled negative dromotropic neurons in the NA-VL. This is the first ultrastructural demonstration of a monosynaptic pathway between neurons in the NTS and functionally associated (negative dromotropic) cardioinhibitory neurons. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that the neuroanatomical circuitry mediating the vagal baroreflex control of AV conduction may be composed of as few as four neurons in series, although interneurons may also be interposed within the NTS. Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.
ganglion|ganglion|1174|1194|1186|1193|into the AV ganglion.|

64|9507472.ti.1|M1
A ganglion of the superior tibiofibular joint as a mucoid-cystic degeneration of unusual localization.
ganglion|ganglion|0|9|2|9|A ganglion|
PMID- 9507472
TI  -  A ganglion of the superior tibiofibular joint as a mucoid-cystic degeneration of unusual localization. A case report and review of the literature.  
AB  - This paper presents the case of a 51-year-old man with a ganglion originating from the superior tibiofibular joint. In the context of the present literature, different theories of the pathogenesis, clinical symptoms, various kinds of imaging methods in regard of the differential diagnosis and the broad spectrum of operative and non-operative treatment are discussed.
ganglion|ganglion|22|31|24|31|A ganglion|

65|9507472.ab.1|M1
This paper presents the case of a 51-year-old man with a ganglion originating from the superior tibiofibular joint.
ganglion|ganglion|50|64|57|64|with a ganglion|
PMID- 9507472
TI  - A ganglion of the superior tibiofibular joint as a mucoid-cystic degeneration of unusual localization. A case report and review of the literature.  
AB  - This paper presents the case of a 51-year-old man with a ganglion originating from the superior tibiofibular joint. In the context of the present literature, different theories of the pathogenesis, clinical symptoms, various kinds of imaging methods in regard of the differential diagnosis and the broad spectrum of operative and non-operative treatment are discussed.
ganglion|ganglion|226|240|233|240|with a ganglion|

66|9592096.ab.10|M2
Thus, rapsyn is dispensable for clustering of ganglionic neuronal nicotinic AChRs.
ganglion|ganglionic|43|81|46|55|of ganglionic neuronal nicotinic AChRs.|
PMID- 9592096
TI  - Rapsyn clusters neuronal acetylcholine receptors but is inessential for formation of an interneuronal cholinergic synapse.  
AB  - Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) are clustered at high density in the postsynaptic membranes of skeletal neuromuscular junctions and cholinergic interneuronal synapses. A cytoplasmic protein, rapsyn, is essential for AChR clustering in muscle. Here, we asked whether rapsyn mediates neuronal AChR clustering at cholinergic synapses in a mammalian sympathetic ganglion, the superior cervical ganglion (SCG). Several observations supported this possibility: (1) AChR clusters containing the alpha3-5 and beta2 subunits, homologs of the muscle AChR subunits, are present at SCG synapses; (2) rapsyn RNA is readily detectable in the SCG; and (3) expression of recombinant rapsyn in heterologous cells induces aggregation of coexpressed neuronal AChR subunits. However, rapsyn protein was undetectable at ganglionic synaptic sites. Moreover, aggregates of neuronal AChRs induced in heterologous cells by full-length rapsyn remained intracellular, whereas rapsyn-induced clusters of muscle AChRs reached the cell surface. Additional studies revealed a second rapsyn RNA species in SCG generated by alternative splicing and competent to encode a novel short rapsyn isoform. However, this isoform clustered neither neuronal nor muscle AChRs in heterologous cells. Most telling, the number, size, and density of AChR clusters in SCG did not differ significantly between neonatal mice bearing a targeted mutation of the rapsyn gene and littermate controls. Thus, rapsyn is dispensable for clustering of ganglionic neuronal nicotinic AChRs.
ganglion|ganglionic|1651|1689|1654|1663|of ganglionic neuronal nicotinic AChRs.|

67|9566145.ab.1|M2
Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin (WGA-HRP) was used to observe the ganglionic origin of primary afferent neurons innervating the buccal stretch receptor (BSR) in the rat.
ganglion|ganglionic|115|135|119|128|the ganglionic origin|
PMID- 9566145
TI  - An HRP study of the distribution of primary afferent neurons innervating the buccal stretch receptor in rats.  
AB  - Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin (WGA-HRP) was used to observe the ganglionic origin of primary afferent neurons innervating the buccal stretch receptor (BSR) in the rat. WGA-HRP was applied to the proximal stump of the severed nerve branch innervating the BSR. HRP-labeled cell bodies were observed only in posterolateral portion of the ipsilateral trigeminal ganglion. The diameter of these cell bodies was 25.5-52.5 microns, of which 54.9% was in the range of 31-40 microns and 36.3% larger than 41 microns. Taken together with its ontogenetic origin, the BSR is suggested to have differentiated from the mechanoreceptors in the oral mucosa or the fascia of masticatory muscles.
ganglion|ganglionic|254|274|258|267|the ganglionic origin|

68|9546292.ti.1|M2
Corticobasal ganglionic degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy presenting with cognitive decline.
ganglion|ganglionic|0|35|13|22|Corticobasal ganglionic degeneration|
PMID- 9546292
TI  -  Corticobasal ganglionic degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy presenting with cognitive decline.  
AB  - Corticobasal ganglionic degeneration (CBGD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) were originally described in the sixties as predominantly motor syndromes. Over the years, the detailed study of additional cases of CBGD has shown that it is a distinctive histological entity which can often present as dementia or aphasia. Although some pathological features of CBGD overlap with those of other forms of non-Alzheimer non-Lewy body dementia, the distribution and relative number of these abnormalities and the distinctive pattern of tau immunodeposits allows the distinction of CBGD from Pick's disease and fronto-temporal dementia. In contrast, PSP only rarely presents with prominent dementia or behavioral changes. In these unusual PSP cases, care must be taken to exclude the diagnoses of CBGD and familial tangle-only dementia.
ganglion|ganglionic|22|57|35|44|Corticobasal ganglionic degeneration|

69|9549785.ti.1|M2
Anatomic considerations of C2 nerve root ganglion [see comments].
ganglion|ganglion|24|50|41|48|of C2 nerve root ganglion [|
PMID- 9549785
TI  - Anatomic considerations of C2 nerve root ganglion [see comments]  
AB  - STUDY DESIGN: Dissection and observation of the dorsal root ganglion of the second cervical spinal nerve bilaterally. OBJECTIVES: To determine the position of the C2 dorsal root ganglion and the heights of the C2 ganglion and its corresponding foramen. SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The dorsal root ganglion has been well studied in the middle and lower cervical spine and in the lumbar spine. In no previous study are the position and height of the C2 dorsal root ganglion and its corresponding foramen described. METHODS: Fifteen cadaveric cervical spines were exposed posteriorly. The C2 nerve roots and ganglia were dissected between the arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis. The heights of the C2 ganglion and foramen were measured. The location of the C2 ganglion was also macroscopically observed. RESULTS: The heights of the C2 ganglion and foramen are 5.7 +/- 0.8 mm and 7.7 +/- 1.2 mm, respectively. The C2 ganglion occupies 76% of the foramen height. All C2 dorsal root ganglia are confined within foramens between the arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis. CONCLUSIONS: The C2 dorsal dorsal root ganglia are all proximally placed and occupy most of the foramen height, which may render the C2 ganglion vulnerable to entrapment.
ganglion|ganglion|45|71|62|69|of C2 nerve root ganglion [|

70|9630743.ab.8|M2
In the Brn-3b-dependent mechanism, Brn-3b may be required to initiate a particular differentiation program for a large set of postmitotic ganglion precursors to properly differentiate into the 70%, Brn-3b-dependent retinal ganglion cells.
ganglion|ganglion|123|156|138|145|of postmitotic ganglion precursors|
PMID- 9630743
TI  - Requirement for Brn-3b in early differentiation of postmitotic retinal ganglion cell precursors.  
AB  - The Brn-3 subfamily of POU domain transcription factors consists of Brn-3a, -3b, and -3c, which are important regulators for sensorineural development. Despite the expression of all three factors in retinal ganglion cells, earlier studies have shown that Brn-3b is the only one among the three Brn-3 genes that is essential for development of approximately 70% of ganglion cells in the murine retina. I report here that Brn-3b displays a spatiotemporal expression pattern characteristic of the dynamic profile of ganglion cell genesis during murine retinal development. Moreover, it is initially turned on in postmitotic ganglion cell precursors 2 days before the onset of Brn-3a and -3c expression in differentiated ganglion cells. During the entire period of retinal ganglion cell genesis, the postmitotic ganglion cell precursors that would normally become Brn-3b+ cells fail to properly differentiate in Brn-3b-/- mice, as evidenced by a twofold reduction in the optic nerve size and diminished expression of several ganglion cell markers. The undifferentiated ganglion cell precursors appear to be degenerated by apoptosis within the ganglion cell layer during the perinatal and early postnatal period. I propose that retinal ganglion cells develop following two separate differentiation pathways--Brn-3b dependent and Brn-3b independent. In the Brn-3b-dependent mechanism, Brn-3b may be required to initiate a particular differentiation program for a large set of postmitotic ganglion precursors to properly differentiate into the 70%, Brn-3b-dependent retinal ganglion cells.
ganglion|ganglion|1593|1626|1608|1615|of postmitotic ganglion precursors|

71|9571505.ab.1|M2
We report a case of an intraneural ganglion of the brachial plexus.
ganglion|ganglion|17|42|35|42|of an intraneural ganglion|
PMID- 9571505
TI  - Intraneural ganglion of the branchial plexus.  
AB  - We report a case of an intraneural ganglion of the brachial plexus. Excision relieved the symptoms.
ganglion|ganglion|92|117|110|117|of an intraneural ganglion|

72|9574763.ab.8|M2
The number of ganglion cells per ganglion was counted in at least 20 ganglia per case.
ganglion|ganglion|29|40|33|40|per ganglion|
PMID- 9574763
TI  - Morphometric aspects of the submucous plexus in whole-mount preparations of normal human distal colon.  
AB  - BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: The diagnosis of intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND) has traditionally been based on the finding of hyperplasia of the submucous plexus and increased acetylcholinesterase activity in parasympathetic nerve fibers in the lamina propria. However, recently it has been suggested that proposed diagnostic criteria relating to nerve cell density may overlap with age-related changes and that the finding of giant ganglia (ganglia containing more than seven ganglion cells) is the most relevant diagnostic parameter of IND. Ganglion cell counting is usually performed on conventional histological sections, whereas the topology of whole ganglia has been poorly studied. The aim of this study was to define the number of ganglion cells per ganglion and the ganglion cell density (the number of ganglion cells per surface area) in submucous whole-mount preparations of normal human colon. METHODS: Specimens from distal colon were obtained during postmortem examination from 14 patients who died of nongastrointestinal disease. The submucous layer was prepared as a whole mount and stained for NADPH diaphorase (a nitrergic neurotransmitter marker) and cuprolinic blue (a general neuronal marker). Ganglion cell density was estimated by counting at least 10 mm2. The number of ganglion cells per ganglion was counted in at least 20 ganglia per case. RESULTS: Ganglion cell density (NADPH diaphorase) fell markedly during the first 5 to 6 years of life (r = -0.60, P < .05). Most ganglion cells formed ganglia of 3 to 64 cuprolinic blue staining cells. The mean number of ganglion cells per ganglion did not vary with age. CONCLUSIONS: The density of NADPH diaphorase-positive ganglion cells in the submucous plexus of human distal colon decreases markedly with age. However, the number of ganglion cells per ganglion remains constant. These findings indicate that the age of the patient has crucial importance for the histolopathologic evaluation of enteric nervous system disorders.
ganglion|ganglion|1435|1446|1439|1446|per ganglion|

73|9579790.ti.1|M2
Early specification of striatal projection neurons and interneuronal subtypes in the lateral and medial ganglionic eminence.
ganglion|ganglionic|97|123|104|113|medial ganglionic eminence.|
PMID- 9579790
TI  - Early specification of striatal projection neurons and interneuronal subtypes in the lateral and medial ganglionic eminence.  
AB  - The striatum is thought to be generated from two transient swellings in the ventral telencephalon, the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences, present at mid-stages of embryonic rat development. We have studied the relative contribution of these structures to the specific generation of striatal neuronal subtypes such as projection neurons and cholinergic and somatostatin-containing interneurons at an early stage and a mid stage in striatal neurogenesis. Dissociated progenitors isolated from the embryonic day 12.5 and embryonic day 15.5 rat lateral ganglionic eminence grafted into the previously ibotenic acid lesioned adult striatum, produce grafts containing extensive numbers of neurons expressing messenger RNA for the striatal projection neuron marker, DARPP-32, whereas grafts of the embryonic day 12.5 and embryonic day 15.5 medial ganglionic eminences do not. While preprosomatostatin messenger RNA-expressing neurons were observed in grafts from each of the lateral ganglionic eminence and medial ganglionic eminence at both embryonic day 12.5 and embryonic day 15.5, choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA-expressing cholinergic neurons were largely found in grafts derived from the embryonic day 12.5 medial ganglionic eminence. These results suggest that the neuronal diversity of the adult striatum may derive both from the lateral ganglionic eminence, providing DARPP-32-expressing projection neurons as well as somatostatin-containing interneurons, and the early stage medial ganglionic eminence specifically contributing the cholinergic interneurons.
ganglion|ganglionic|118|144|125|134|medial ganglionic eminence.|

74|9603424.ab.3|M2
The former model allowed us to study the consequences of FGF2 down-regulation on early ganglion cell differentiation, whereas, in the latter model, subsequent development stages and terminal maturation of the retina were studied.
ganglion|ganglion|78|116|87|94|on early ganglion cell differentiation,|
PMID- 9603424
TI  - Suppression of fibroblast growth factor 2 expression by antisense oligonucleotides inhibits embryonic chick neural retina cell differentiation and survival in vivo.  
AB  - During retinal differentiation, fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) expression increases in retinal neurons following the sequential appearance of the neuronal layers. The function of the developmental increase of endogenous FGF2 in the developing chick retina was investigated by using an antisense strategy, using both optic vesicle cultures and in ovo-intravitreal microinjections. The former model allowed us to study the consequences of FGF2 down-regulation on early ganglion cell differentiation, whereas, in the latter model, subsequent development stages and terminal maturation of the retina were studied. FGF2 inhibition resulted in reduced ganglion cell differentiation, as visualized by the expression of the ganglion cell-specific RA4 and Islet-1 markers in optic vesicle cultures. Eyes intravitreally injected with the FGF2-specific antisense oligonucleotide exhibited profound retinal differentiation defects: thinning of the ganglion and outer nuclear (photoreceptors) cell layers and increased cell death in ganglion cell and inner nuclear layers. These results indicate that the loss of endogenous FGF2 cannot be compensated for in the retina and suggest that, although many other sources of FGF exist in the eye, the main role of the increase in endogenous FGF2 observed during retinal development is to intrinsically stimulate neuron differentiation and to protect neurons against cell death.
ganglion|ganglion|655|693|664|671|on early ganglion cell differentiation,|

75|9639380.ab.5|M2
ISDN treatment caused hemodynamic tolerance to NO donors and significantly increased the hypotensive responses to pharmacologic ganglionic blockade in conscious pigs.
ganglion|ganglionic|111|146|128|137|to pharmacologic ganglionic blockade|
PMID- 9639380
TI  - Impaired modulation of sympathetic excitability by nitric oxide after long-term administration of organic nitrates in pigs.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: Endogenous nitric oxide (NO) reduces sympathetic vasoconstriction by attenuating neuronal excitability in the brain stem and inhibition of postganglionic neurotransmission. We studied whether this modulation of sympathetic circulatory control by NO may be altered during chronic administration of NO donor drugs in pigs. METHODS AND RESULTS: Nitrate tolerance was induced by oral administration of isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN, 4 mg/kg per day for 4 weeks) in eight pigs. Four of them were chronically instrumented for the measurement of mean arterial blood pressure and cardiac output in the conscious state. ISDN treatment caused hemodynamic tolerance to NO donors and significantly increased the hypotensive responses to pharmacologic ganglionic blockade in conscious pigs. In general anesthesia, ISDN-treated animals and age-matched controls (n=5) had similar baseline renal sympathetic nerve activity and in both groups neither inhibition of NO synthases (NOS) nor administration of NO donors to the brain stem by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusions caused significant changes in baseline renal sympathetic nerve activity. However, whereas sympathoexcitatory responses to glutamate (0.5 mL, 0.1 mol/L, i.c.v.) or electrical stimulation of somatic nerve afferents were significantly potentiated by central NOS inhibition and attenuated by NO donors in controls, these treatments no longer had significant effects in ISDN-treated pigs. Furthermore, reflex sympathetic activation in response to intravenous NO donor treatment was more pronounced in nitrate tolerant animals, which suggests loss of central sympathoinhibitory effects of NO. Subsequent histology on brain stem slices with NADPH-diaphorase as NOS marker revealed significant reduction of NOS density in ISDN-treated pigs. CONCLUSIONS: Long-term administration of organic nitrates reduces the number of NO-producing neurons in the brain stem and causes loss of inhibitory effects of NO on sympathetic excitability. This component of tolerance to organic nitrates may be important in patients confronted frequently with sympathetic activation caused by mental and/or physical stressors.
ganglion|ganglionic|884|919|901|910|to pharmacologic ganglionic blockade|

76|9633732.ab.4|M2
OBJECTIVE: To test serum of patients with autonomic neuropathy for autoantibodies of neuronal ganglionic AChR specificity.
ganglion|ganglionic|82|121|94|103|of neuronal ganglionic AChR specificity.|
PMID- 9633732
TI  - Neuronal nicotinic ACh receptor antibody in subacute autonomic neuropathy and cancer-related syndromes.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: Autoantibodies specific for the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) of skeletal muscle (containing the alpha1 subunit) impair neuromuscular transmission in myasthenia gravis (MG). AChRs mediating fast synaptic transmission through autonomic ganglia are structurally similar to muscle AChR, but contain the alpha3 subunit. We propose that ganglionic AChR autoimmunity may cause dysautonomia. OBJECTIVE: To test serum of patients with autonomic neuropathy for autoantibodies of neuronal ganglionic AChR specificity. METHODS: We developed an immunoprecipitation radioassay by complexing epibatidine (125I-labeled high affinity agonist) to a Triton X-100-solubilized AChR antigen from peripheral neuroblastoma membranes. Monoclonal rat immunoglobulins (IgG) specific for muscle or neuronal AChRs validated the assay's specificity. We tested serum from 52 healthy subjects, 12 patients with subacute autonomic neuropathy, and 248 patients with other neurologic disorders. RESULTS: Twelve patients had antibodies that bound unequivocally to ganglionic AChR. Five had subacute autonomic neuropathy, and three (of six tested) had Isaacs' syndrome; four of these eight had a carcinoma (lung, bladder, rectum, thyroid). The remaining four seropositive patients (two Lambert-Eaton syndrome, one dementia, one sensory neuronopathy) all had Ca2+ channel antibodies and three had small cell lung carcinoma. No healthy subject had ganglionic AChR antibodies, nor did 62 patients with MG and muscle AChR antibodies. CONCLUSION: Neuronal AChR antibodies are a novel serologic marker of neurologic autoimmunity. The pathogenicity of neuronal AChR autoantibodies in autonomic neuropathy, Isaacs' syndrome, or other neurologic disorders remains to be shown, as has been demonstrated for muscle AChR antibodies in MG. An autoimmune and potentially paraneoplastic etiology is implicated in seropositive patients.
ganglion|ganglionic|612|651|624|633|of neuronal ganglionic AChR specificity.|

77|9608577.ab.6|M2
Pupil size increased when mecamylamine was added to scopolamine, while systolic blood pressure and pulse changed in concordance with ganglionic blockade.
ganglion|ganglionic|128|152|133|142|with ganglionic blockade.|
PMID- 9608577
TI  - Combined nicotinic and muscarinic blockade in elderly normal volunteers: cognitive, behavioral, and physiologic responses.  
AB  - Establishing a pharmacologic model of the memory deficits of Alzheimer's disease could be an important tool in understanding how memory fails. We examined the combined effects of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine and the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine in eight normal elderly volunteers (age 61.9 +/- 8.3 yrs, SD). Each received four separate drug challenges (scopolamine (0.4 mg i.v.), mecamylamine (0.2 mg/kg up to 15 mg PO), mecamylamine + scopolamine, and placebo). There was a trend toward increased impairment in explicit memory for the mecamylamine + scopolamine condition as compared to scopolamine alone. Increased impairment was also seen for the mecamylamine + scopolamine condition as compared to scopolamine alone in selected behavioral ratings. Pupil size increased when mecamylamine was added to scopolamine, while systolic blood pressure and pulse changed in concordance with ganglionic blockade. These data together with previous brain-imaging results suggest that this muscarinic-nicotinic drug combination may better model Alzheimer's disease than either drug alone.
ganglion|ganglionic|1046|1070|1051|1060|with ganglionic blockade.|

78|9593915.ab.7|M2
Prior to either PVNx or SHAM, FR rats had significantly lower BP (AL=152+/-5; FR=113+/-2 mmHg), less of a depressor response to ganglionic blockade (AL=-58+/-4; FR=-35+/-2 mmHg), and lower plasma norepinephrine levels (AL=758+/-71; FR=380+/-23 pg/ml) compared to AL.
ganglion|ganglionic|125|146|128|137|to ganglionic blockade|
PMID- 9593915
TI  - Food restriction attenuates the blood pressure response to paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei lesions in aortic coarctation hypertension.  
AB  - Chronic food restriction reduces blood pressure (BP) and sympathetic support of BP in aortic coarctation hypertension. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that chronic food restriction would reduce sympathetic support of BP mediated by the paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei (PVN). Hypertension was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=40) by suprarenal aortic coarctation. Rats were assigned to either an ad libitum fed (AL) group or a food restricted (FR) group that received 60% of the food consumed by AL for 3 weeks. One week prior to data collection, catheters were implanted in the left carotid artery and right jugular vein. BP was measured for 2 days prior to, and 7 days after rats in AL and FR groups received either bilateral electrolytic lesions of the PVN (PVNx) or sham lesions (SHAM). Prior to either PVNx or SHAM, FR rats had significantly lower BP (AL=152+/-5; FR=113+/-2 mmHg), less of a depressor response to ganglionic blockade (AL=-58+/-4; FR=-35+/-2 mmHg), and lower plasma norepinephrine levels (AL=758+/-71; FR=380+/-23 pg/ml) compared to AL. PVNx reduced BP in both AL and FR rats (AL-PVNx=105+/-6 mmHg, FR-PVNx=101+/-3 mmHg). PVNx also lowered the depressor response to ganglionic blockade (AL-PVNx=-28+/-5 mmHg, FR-PVNx=-29+/-4 mmHg) and plasma norepinephrine levels (AL-PVNx=372+/-74 pg/ml, FR-PVNx=248+/-31 pg/ml). FR decreased the magnitude of the reductions in resting BP and in sympathetic activity in response to PVNx. These results indicate that intact PVN are required for maintenance of aortic coarctation hypertension, and implicate the PVN as a site involved in BP reductions produced by chronic food restriction. Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.
ganglion|ganglionic|1114|1135|1117|1126|to ganglionic blockade|

79|9663181.ab.8|M2
With ganglionic blockade, young hypertensive subjects also showed mild blunting of left ventricular responses.
ganglion|ganglionic|0|24|5|14|With ganglionic blockade,|
PMID- 9663181
TI  - Age, hypertension, and cardiac responses to beta-agonist in humans.  
AB  - OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effects of hypertension on heart rate and left ventricular responses to beta-agonist in young and older subjects, as well as the modulating effect of the arterial baroreflex on these responses. METHODS: Isoproterenol (INN, isoprenaline) alone was infused in 14 young normotensive subjects (mean age, 30 +/- 2 years), 18 older normotensive subjects (mean age, 60 +/- 2 years), 11 young hypertensive subjects (mean age, 36 +/- 1 years), and 17 older hypertensive subjects (mean age, 59 +/- 1 years); isoproterenol combined with ganglionic blockade (trimethaphan [INN, trimetaphan]) was administered to eight young normotensive subjects and eight young hypertensive subjects. Isoproterenol was infused at three to four incremental rates, each rate for 8 minutes. Left ventricular responses were assessed by echocardiography. RESULTS: Isoproterenol caused similar increases in heart rate in all four groups. With ganglionic blockade, heart rate responses were enhanced but were similar in the young normotensive and hypertensive subjects. In young subjects, hypertension did not affect left ventricular responses to isoproterenol alone, whereas older hypertensive subjects showed some blunting of left ventricular responses compared with older normotensive subjects.  With ganglionic blockade, young hypertensive subjects also showed mild blunting of left ventricular responses. CONCLUSION: These results show that, in humans, hypertension does not lead to a decrease in chronotropic responses to infusion of the beta-agonist isoproterenol and causes only a modest decrease in left ventricular responses.
ganglion|ganglionic|1389|1413|1394|1403|With ganglionic blockade,|

80|9619498.ab.6|M2
Neurons from the right parietal ganglion projecting into the penis nerve were electrophysiologically and morphologically identified by simultaneously recording from the cell body intracellularly and the penis nerve extracellularly and subsequently filling them with an anterograde tracer and subjecting them to immunocytochemistry.
ganglion|ganglion|8|39|32|39|from the right parietal ganglion|
PMID- 9619498
TI  - Transmitter identification in neurons involved in male copulation behavior in Lymnaea stagnalis.  
AB  - In this paper, we have mapped the cellular localization of various transmitters onto the central neurons which are involved in male copulation behavior in Lymnaea stagnalis, by combining retrograde tracing with immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. Evidence is provided that neurons which were backfilled from the penis nerve, the sole nerve to innervate the male copulatory organ, synthesize a multitude of neuropeptides (APGWamide, Lymnaea neuropeptide tyrosin [LNPY], conopressin, pedal peptide, SEEPLY, DEILSR, myomodulin, and Lymnaea inhibitory peptide [LIP]) as well as the classical neurotransmitter, serotonin. In the anterior lobe, the backfilled neurons mainly contain the tetrapeptide APGWamide and conopressin, and not LNPY or pedal peptide. The results suggest a central role in the regulation of copulation activity for the anterior lobe neurons that produce APGWamide and conopressin. Immunostainings of backfilled nervous systems revealed immunopositive axons originating from these neurons to form varicosities on the cell somata of neurons in the other clusters contributing to the innervation of the male sexual system. Neurons from the right parietal ganglion projecting into the penis nerve were electrophysiologically and morphologically identified by simultaneously recording from the cell body intracellularly and the penis nerve extracellularly and subsequently filling them with an anterograde tracer and subjecting them to immunocytochemistry. This method has provided links between morphology, physiology, and the transmitter contents of these neurons.
ganglion|ganglion|1282|1313|1306|1313|from the right parietal ganglion|

81|9575300.ab.8|M2
Moreover, petrosal ganglion neurones were sensitive to hyperoxic exposure only during the early postnatal period.
ganglion|ganglion|10|35|19|26|petrosal ganglion neurones|
PMID- 9575300
TI  - Chemoafferent degeneration and carotid body hypoplasia following chronic hyperoxia in newborn rats.  
AB  - 1. To define the role of environmental oxygen in regulating postnatal maturation of the carotid body afferent pathway, light and electron microscopic methods were used to compare chemoafferent neurone survival and carotid body development in newborn rats reared from birth in normoxia (21 % O2) or chronic hyperoxia (60 % O2). 2. Four weeks of chronic hyperoxia resulted in a significant 41 % decrease in the number of unmyelinated axons in the carotid sinus nerve, compared with age-matched normoxic controls. In contrast, the number of myelinated axons was unaffected by hyperoxic exposure. 3. Chemoafferent neurones, located in the glossopharyngeal petrosal ganglion, already exhibited degenerative changes following 1 week of hyperoxia from birth, indicating that even a relatively short hyperoxic exposure was sufficient to derange normal chemoafferent development. In contrast, no such changes were observed in the vagal nodose ganglion, demonstrating that the effect of high oxygen levels was specific to sensory neurones in the carotid body afferent pathway. Moreover, petrosal ganglion neurones were sensitive to hyperoxic exposure only during the early postnatal period. 4. Chemoafferent degeneration in chronically hyperoxic animals was accompanied by marked hypoplasia of the carotid body. In view of previous findings from our laboratory that chemoafferent neurones require trophic support from the carotid body for survival after birth, we propose that chemoafferent degeneration following chronic hyperoxia is due specifically to the loss of target tissue in the carotid body.
ganglion|ganglion|1206|1231|1215|1222|petrosal ganglion neurones|

82|9658140.ab.1|M2
The purpose of this study was to define the relationship between herpes simplex virus (HSV) latency and in vivo ganglionic reactivation.
ganglion|ganglionic|104|135|112|121|in vivo ganglionic reactivation.|
PMID- 9658140
TI  - The probability of in vivo reactivation of herpes simplex virus type 1 increases with the number of latently infected neurons in the ganglia.  
AB  - The purpose of this study was to define the relationship between herpes simplex virus (HSV) latency and in vivo ganglionic reactivation. Groups of mice with numbers of latently infected neurons ranging from 1.9 to 24% were generated by varying the input titer of wild-type HSV type 1 strain 17syn+. Reactivation of the virus in mice from each group was induced by hyperthermic stress. The number of animals that exhibited virus reactivation was positively correlated with the number of latently infected neurons in the ganglia over the entire range examined (r = 0.9852, P < 0. 0001 [Pearson correlation]).
ganglion|ganglionic|275|306|283|292|in vivo ganglionic reactivation.|

83|9655807.ab.4|M2
We transplanted dissociated cells from the E14 rat medial and lateral ganglionic eminences, either combined or in isolation, into the E16 embryonic rat brain.
ganglion|ganglionic|62|90|70|79|lateral ganglionic eminences,|
PMID- 9655807
TI  - Basal ganglia precursors found in aggregates following embryonic transplantation adopt a striatal phenotype in heterotopic locations.  
AB  - Transplantation of immature CNS-derived cells into the developing brain is a powerful approach to investigate the factors that regulate neuronal position and phenotype. CNS progenitor cells dissociated from the embryonic striatum and implanted into the brain of embryos of the same species generate cells that reaggregate to form easily recognizable structures that we previously called clusters and cells that disperse and integrate as single cells into the host brain. We sought to determine if the neurons in the clusters differentiate according to their final location or acquire a striatal phenotype in heterotopic positions. We transplanted dissociated cells from the E14 rat medial and lateral ganglionic eminences, either combined or in isolation, into the E16 embryonic rat brain. At all time points, we found clusters of BrdU- and DiI-labelled donor cells located in the forebrain and hindbrain, without any apparent preference for striatum. Immunocytochemical analyses revealed that cells in the clusters expressed DARPP-32 and ARPP-21, two antigens typically co-expressed in striatal medium-sized spiny neurons. In agreement with observations previously noted by several groups, isolated cells integrated into heterologous host areas do not express basal ganglia phenotypes. These data imply that immature striatal neuronal progenitors exert a community effect on each other that is permissive and/or instructive for development of a striatal phenotype in heterotopic locations.
ganglion|ganglionic|856|884|864|873|lateral ganglionic eminences,|

84|9636837.ab.7|M2
The dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons and, to a lesser extent, satellite cells showed the same changes as those induced by CDDP, mainly affecting the nucleus and nucleolus of ganglionic sensory neurons.
ganglion|ganglionic|174|203|177|186|of ganglionic sensory neurons.|
PMID- 9636837
TI  - Carboplatin toxic effects on the peripheral nervous system of the rat.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: The most striking of carboplatin's advantages (CBDCA) over cisplatin (CDDP) is its markedly reduced rate of neurotoxic effects. However, the use of CBDCA higher-intensity schedules and the association with other neurotoxic drugs in polychemotherapy may cause some concern about its safety with respect to peripheral nervous system damage. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two different schedules of CBDCA administration (10 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg i.p. twice a week for nine times) were evaluated in Wistar rats. Neurotoxicity was assessed for behavioral (tail-flick test), neurophysiological (nerve conduction velocity in the tail nerve), morphological, morphometrical and analytical effects. RESULTS: CBDCA administration induced dose-dependent peripheral neurotoxicity. Pain perception and nerve conduction velocity in the tail were significantly impaired, particularly after the high-dose treatment. The dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons and, to a lesser extent, satellite cells showed the same changes as those induced by CDDP, mainly affecting the nucleus and nucleolus of ganglionic sensory neurons. Moreover, significant amounts of platinum were detected in the dorsal root ganglia and kidney after CBDCA treatment. CONCLUSIONS: CBDCA is neurotoxic in our model, and the type of pathological changes it induces are so closely similar to those caused by CDDP that it is probable that neurotoxicity is induced in the two drugs by the same mechanism. This model can be used alone or in combination with other drugs to explore the effect of CBDCA on the peripheral nervous system.
ganglion|ganglionic|1175|1204|1178|1187|of ganglionic sensory neurons.|

85|9665544.ti.1|M1
A palmar ganglion arising from the metacarpophalangeal joint.
ganglion|ganglion|0|16|9|16|A palmar ganglion|
PMID- 9665544
TI  -  A palmar ganglion arising from the metacarpophalangeal joint.  
ganglion|ganglion|22|38|31|38|A palmar ganglion|

86|9700097.ti.1|M2
Ca2+ and K+ currents regulate accommodation and firing frequency in guinea pig bronchial ganglion neurons.
ganglion|ganglion|65|105|89|96|in guinea pig bronchial ganglion neurons.|
PMID- 9700097
TI  - Ca2+ and K+ currents regulate accommodation and firing frequency in guinea pig bronchial ganglion neurons.  
AB  - Intracellular microelectrode recordings were obtained from neurons located in adult guinea pig bronchial parasympathetic ganglia in situ to determine the calcium and potassium currents regulating repetitive action potential activity and firing rates by these neurons. Neurons in these ganglia respond to prolonged suprathreshold depolarizing current steps with either a burst of action potentials at the onset of the stimulus (accommodating or phasic neurons) or repetitive action potentials throughout the stimulus (nonaccommodating or tonic neurons). Instantaneous and adapted firing rates during prolonged threshold and suprathreshold stimuli were lower in tonic than in phasic neurons, indicating a longer interspike interval between repetitive action potentials in tonic neurons. In tonic neurons, blockade of A-type current with 4-aminopyridine increased accommodation; 4-aminopyridine or apamin decreased the interspike interval in tonic neurons. Calcium-free buffer, cadmium ions, or omega-conotoxin GVIA also increased accommodation in tonic neurons but did not affect the interspike interval; nifedipine or verapamil did not affect the tonic firing pattern. Accommodation in phasic neurons could be decreased by a conditioning hyperpolarization step of the resting potential, which could be subsequently blocked by 4-aminopyridine or calcium-free buffer. Accommodation in phasic neurons could also be decreased by apamin or barium ions: the repetitive action potentials observed during these treatments could be reversed by cadmium ions or calcium-free buffer. These results indicate that tonic and phasic neurons in guinea pig bronchial parasympathetic ganglia have similar types of calcium currents, but potassium channels may ultimately regulate the accommodation pattern, the firing rate, and, consequently, the output from these neurons.
ganglion|ganglion|86|126|110|117|in guinea pig bronchial ganglion neurons.|

87|9737248.ab.10|M2
This is the first report of abnormal mitochondria observed in intestinal ganglion and smooth-muscle cells in this syndrome.
ganglion|ganglion|59|80|73|80|in intestinal ganglion|
PMID- 9737248
TI  - Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy: diagnosis by rectal biopsy.  
AB  - A 14-year-old girl with the mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome had an 8-year history of intestinal pseudoobstruction with abdominal pain, persistent vomiting, gastric and duodenal dilatation, and duodenal diverticulosis. The child appeared chronically malnourished and had severe growth failure. Multisystem involvement was evident with the presence of ptosis, external ophthalmoplegia, muscle wasting, peripheral neuropathy, and diffuse white matter disease seen on magnetic resonance imaging. Lactic acidosis and increased cerebrospinal fluid protein were observed. Mitochondrial enzyme analysis of fresh-frozen skeletal muscle revealed a respiratory chain defect. Molecular genetic studies showed multiple mitochondrial DNA deletions. Pathologic findings in the intestine included atrophy of the external layer of the muscularis propria and an increased number of abnormal-appearing mitochondria in ganglion and smooth-muscle cells. Microvesicular steatosis was observed in liver, skeletal, and gastrointestinal smooth muscle, and Schwann cells of peripheral nerve. Brightly eosinophilic inclusions in the cytoplasm of gastrointestinal ganglion cells were visible by light microscopy, which were confirmed to be megamitochondria by ultrastructural studies. This is the first report of abnormal mitochondria observed in intestinal ganglion and smooth-muscle cells in this syndrome.
ganglion|ganglion|1456|1477|1470|1477|in intestinal ganglion|

88|9710518.ab.3|M2
However, L5 spinal nerve ligation and transection (SNL) results in the complete isolation of the L5 DRG from the degenerating stump, yet sympathetic axons invade the ganglion, and sympathetically dependent pain develops.
ganglion|ganglion|162|174|166|173|the ganglion,|
PMID- 9710518
TI  - Differences in sympathetic innervation of mouse DRG following proximal or distal nerve lesions.  
AB  - Nerve injury leads to novel sympathetic innervation of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). We have hypothesized previously that the degenerating nerve increases the sympathetic sprouting in the DRG and pain after chronic sciatic constriction injury (CCI) by virtue of its influence on sensory and sympathetic axons spared by the injury. However, L5 spinal nerve ligation and transection (SNL) results in the complete isolation of the L5 DRG from the degenerating stump, yet sympathetic axons invade the ganglion, and sympathetically dependent pain develops. We investigated the role of Wallerian degeneration in both sympathetic sprouting and neuropathic pain in these two models of painful peripheral neuropathy by comparing responses of normal C57B1/6J and C57B1/Wlds mice in which degeneration is impaired. After CCI, Wlds mice, unlike 6J mice, did not develop thermal or mechanoallodynia or sympathetic innervation of the L5 DRG. After SNL, both strains developed mechanoallodynia and sympathetic sprouts in L5, but only 6J mice developed thermal allodynia. Observation of the origins of the invading sympathetic axons revealed that after CCI, sympathetics innervating blood vessels and dura (probably intact) sprouted into the ganglion, but after SNL sympathetics (probably axotomized) invaded from the injured spinal nerve. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that there are two mechanisms for sympathetic sprouting into DRG, differentially dependent on Wallerian degeneration. Analysis of pain behavior in these animals reveals that (i) mechanoallodynia and sympathetic innervation of the DRG tend to coincide and (ii) thermal allodynia and Wallerian degeneration, but not sympathetic innervation of the DRG tend to coincide. Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
ganglion|ganglion|620|632|624|631|the ganglion,|

89|9731752.ab.2|M2
To explore the potential role of FGF-1 in terminal innervation events, the response of cochlear ganglion neurons to FGF-1 was evaluated in culture.
ganglion|ganglion|84|111|96|103|of cochlear ganglion neurons|
PMID- 9731752
TI  - Focal delivery of fibroblast growth factor-1 by transfected cells induces spiral ganglion neurite targeting in vitro.  
AB  - Sensory cells in the cochlea of the rat transiently express acidic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-1) during the developmental period of terminal innervation in the sensory epithelium. To explore the potential role of FGF-1 in terminal innervation events, the response of cochlear ganglion neurons to FGF-1 was evaluated in culture. Explants from the spiral ganglion of postnatal day 5 rats were cultured in the presence of exogenous FGF-1, with or without heparin. FGF-1 in the culture medium produced a dose-dependent increase in the number and length of neurites produced by spiral ganglion neurons, a response that was enhanced by heparin. To assess the effects of FGF-1 produced by a focal, cellular source, additional explants were cocultured with 3T3 cell transfectants that secrete FGF-1. Neurites that came into contact with FGF-1 secreting cells branched, formed bouton-like terminal swellings on the surface of the transfectants, and stopped extending. The results suggest that FGF-1 may stimulate neurite extension into the sensory epithelium of the cochlea and that focal production of FGF-1 may contribute to the formation of contacts on sensory cells by developing neurites.
ganglion|ganglion|414|441|426|433|of cochlear ganglion neurons|

90|9731598.ab.14|M2
The main topographic pattern of bleeding, ganglionic-ganglionic, is likely the result of hypertension; the less common lobar-lobar pattern probably results from amyloid angiopathy.
ganglion|ganglionic|42|63|42|51|ganglionic-ganglionic,|
PMID- 9731598
TI  - Recurrent primary cerebral hemorrhage: frequency, mechanisms, and prognosis.  
AB  - BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The frequency of recurrent primary cerebral hemorrhage (RPCH), mainly in cases related to hypertension, has been considered low. This study investigated the frequency, mechanisms, and prognosis of RPCH. METHODS: We evaluated 359 patients with neuroimaging evidence of cerebral hemorrhage and selected 22 with RPCH. RESULTS: Five patients (23%) were older than 70 years at the first cerebral hemorrhage. Mean ages at the first and second hemorrhages were 60 and 63 years, respectively. Risk factors included hypertension (86%), diabetes (27%), and tobacco and alcohol use (each 14%). Hypocholesterolemia was demonstrated in 35% of the patients. The most common pattern of recurrent bleeding was ganglionic-ganglionic, mainly related to hypertension. Overall mortality was 32%. Forty-one percent and 27% of patients, respectively, had incapacitating and nonincapacitating sequelae; 2 of the latter had RPCH with a lobar location. Ganglionic-ganglionic hemorrhage was associated with a poor prognosis; otherwise, this pattern was uncommon in patients with nonincapacitating sequelae. Analysis of the control of risk factors, primarily hypertension after the first cerebral hemorrhage, disclosed that 56% of patients did not gain subsequent control. CONCLUSIONS: Rebleeding after a first primary intracerebral hemorrhage is not uncommon. The main topographic pattern of bleeding, ganglionic-ganglionic, is likely the result of hypertension; the less common lobar-lobar pattern probably results from amyloid angiopathy.
ganglion|ganglionic|1506|1527|1506|1515|ganglionic-ganglionic,|

91|9733577.ab.2|M2
In situ hybridization reveals that embryonic expression of Lox22-Otx RNA is primarily restricted to an unsegmented head domain, including tissues in the foregut, surface ectoderm, and the head ganglion of the central nervous system.
ganglion|ganglion|184|200|193|200|the head ganglion|
PMID- 9733577
TI  - Expression of the head gene Lox22-Otx in the leech Helobdella and the origin of the bilaterian body plan.  
AB  - The orthodenticle orthologue Lox22-Otx was isolated from an annelid worm, the leech Helobdella triserialis. In situ hybridization reveals that embryonic expression of Lox22-Otx RNA is primarily restricted to an unsegmented head domain, including tissues in the foregut, surface ectoderm, and the head ganglion of the central nervous system. The patterns of head expression form concentric rings about the stomadeum and mark tissue domains that exhibit discrete behaviors during later morphogenesis and differentiation. Expression was also observed in one to two bilateral pairs of neurons in each segmental ganglion or neuromere of the body trunk. The largely head-specific expression of Lox22-Otx in this annelid species supports data from two other bilaterian phyla in suggesting the existence of a genetically defined head/trunk distinction. We suggest here that this head/trunk distinction is a synapomorphy of the Bilateria as a whole, and that it reflects the body plan of an early bilaterian ancestor. In addition, we discuss the possibility that the radial organization of gene expression and cell lineages in the leech's head domain may reflect the symmetry properties of a prebilaterian ancestor that had a radially symmetric body plan. Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
ganglion|ganglion|427|443|436|443|the head ganglion|

92|9698833.ab.5|M2
In the caudal sub-nucleus of the spinal trigeminal nuclear complex, the number of Fos-positive neurons was much higher in rats with inflammation of the superior cervical ganglion than in control rats, either sham-operated or with saline applied to the ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|245|260|252|259|to the ganglion.|
PMID- 9698833
TI  - Expression of Fos protein in the rat central nervous system in response to noxious stimulation: effects of chronic inflammation of the superior cervical ganglion.  
AB  - The aim of this study was to investigate the possible interactions between the nociceptive system, the sympathetic system and the inflammatory process. Thus, the superior cervical ganglion of rats was submitted to chronic inflammation and Fos expression was used as a marker for neuronal activity throughout central neurons following painful peripheral stimulation. The painful stimulus consisted of subcutaneously injected formalin applied to the supra-ocular region. Fos-positive neurons were identified by conventional immunohistochemical techniques, and analyzed from the obex through the cervical levels of the spinal cord. In the caudal sub-nucleus of the spinal trigeminal nuclear complex, the number of Fos-positive neurons was much higher in rats with inflammation of the superior cervical ganglion than in control rats, either sham-operated or with saline applied to the ganglion. There was a highly significant difference in the density of Fos-positive neurons between the inflamed and control groups. No significant difference was found between control groups. These results suggest that the inflammation of the superior cervical ganglion generated an increased responsiveness to painful stimuli, which may have been due to a diminished sympathetic influence upon the sensory peripheral innervation.
ganglion|ganglion|1066|1081|1073|1080|to the ganglion.|

93|9753115.ab.3|M2
Striatal progenitors derived from the embryonic day (E) 12-14 mouse lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) were observed consistently to incorporate into the developing striatum as early as 24-48 h following intraventricular injection into the E15-17 rat host.
ganglion|ganglionic|56|94|76|85|12-14 mouse lateral ganglionic eminence|
PMID- 9753115
TI  - Incorporation of mouse neural progenitors transplanted into the rat embryonic forebrain is developmentally regulated and dependent on regional and adhesive properties.  
AB  - During development, telencephalic neural progenitors acquire positional specification and give rise to distinct structures such as the striatum and cortex. Here, we examine, in vivo, the influence of developmental stage, cell-surface molecules and regional differences along the dorso-ventral and antero-posterior axes on the selective incorporation of neural progenitors derived from different regions of the developing brain, utilizing a cross-species in utero transplantation paradigm. Striatal progenitors derived from the embryonic day (E) 12-14 mouse lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) were observed consistently to incorporate into the developing striatum as early as 24-48 h following intraventricular injection into the E15-17 rat host. By removing cell-surface molecules from the LGE progenitors, the pattern of incorporation was remarkably different with no preferential striatal incorporation. Cortical progenitors with intact cell-surface molecules, by contrast, displayed little telencephalic (including striatal) incorporation as compared with precursors from the LGE. However, both progenitors from cortex and LGE incorporated widely into diencephalic and mesencephalic structures. The capacity for integration of precursors derived from the LGE and cortex gradually decreased during development of the host and was minimal in the postnatal day (P) 1 host. Unlike the telencephalic precursors, the vast majority of progenitors derived from the midbrain and cerebellar primordium (with cell-surface molecules intact) incorporated into diencephalic and midbrain nuclei with only a few cells observed in the telencephalon. These results demonstrate that incorporation of neural progenitors across the ventricular wall in the embryonic host is strictly developmentally regulated, dependent on their position along the antero-posterior axes and in the case of progenitors from the LGE is mediated by cell-surface molecules expressed on the transplanted cells.
ganglion|ganglionic|742|780|762|771|12-14 mouse lateral ganglionic eminence|

94|9710948.ab.2|M1
Plain radiographs showed thick and sparse spicula with shallow and irregular cortical erosion, which suggested periosteal ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|111|130|122|129|periosteal ganglion.|
PMID- 9710948
TI  - Periosteal ganglion of the radius: a case report.  
AB  - We report a case of 43-year-old female with a periosteal ganglion arising in the right radius. Plain radiographs showed thick and sparse spicula with shallow and irregular cortical erosion, which suggested periosteal ganglion. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed a well circumscribed homogeneous lesion with low signal intensity on T1-weighted images and high signal intensity on T2-weighted images. No apparent enhancement observed after gadolinium injection suggested that the lesion was cystic. At operation, gelatinous material was removed together with the spicula, the surface of the cortex and the overlying periosteum. There was no clinical evidence of recurrence after three years of surgical treatment. MR imaging was thought to be useful to confirm the diagnosis of periosteal ganglion.
ganglion|ganglion|285|304|296|303|periosteal ganglion.|

95|9724260.ab.4|M2
5-HT was applied either directly to the ganglion containing the neuron recorded intracellularly or to adjacent ganglia positioned at increasing distances on either side of the impaled cell in circumferential or longitudinal orientations.
ganglion|ganglion|33|47|40|47|to the ganglion|
PMID- 9724260
TI  - Organization of intrinsic cholinergic neurons projecting within submucosal plexus of guinea pig ileum.  
AB  - Electrophysiological techniques were employed to examine the organization of the projections of submucosal neurons in the submucosal plexus of guinea pig ileum. These neurons were activated by focal pressure-pulse application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) to single ganglia in submucosal preparations in vitro, and resulting fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were recorded intracellularly in S-type neurons. 5-HT-evoked fast EPSPs were blocked by TTX, hexamethonium, and ICS-205-930 (tropisetron). 5-HT was applied either directly to the ganglion containing the neuron recorded intracellularly or to adjacent ganglia positioned at increasing distances on either side of the impaled cell in circumferential or longitudinal orientations. All S-type neurons recorded in this study (n = 103) received nicotinic fast EPSPs from cholinergic neurons when 5-HT was applied directly to the ganglion containing the impaled neuron. Stimulation of adjacent ganglia also evoked nicotinic fast EPSPs, but the number of neurons that received this input decreased as the distance between the stimulus and the impaled cell increased. Maximal projections were 3 mm in the circumferential and orad-to-aborad orientations. There were no significant projections in the aborad-to-orad direction. These findings suggest that S-type neurons in the submucosal plexus are innervated by intrinsic cholinergic neurons that project over relatively short distances and have a distinct orad-to-aborad polarity.
ganglion|ganglion|677|691|684|691|to the ganglion|

96|9751685.ab.4|M2
BAY y 5959 still reduced heart rate in dogs with arterial baroreceptor denervation, but not after ganglionic blockade.
ganglion|ganglionic|92|117|98|107|after ganglionic blockade.|
PMID- 9751685
TI  - Voltage-dependent calcium channel promoter restores baroreflex sensitivity in conscious dogs with heart failure.  
AB  - BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine the mechanism by which the calcium channel promoter BAY y 5959 affects the control of heart rate and baroreflex sensitivity in conscious dogs with pacing-induced heart failure (HF). METHODS AND RESULTS: We compared responses to BAY y 5959, which increases inotropy and decreases chronotropy, with those to norepinephrine (NE), which coincidentally exerts the same directional effects on inotropy and chronotropy, albeit through different mechanisms, in the presence and absence of ganglionic blockade both in control and in HF. Both BAY y 5959 and NE elicit direct effects on the heart and indirect effects through activation of reflexes, primarily the sinoaortic baroreceptor reflex. BAY y 5959 still reduced heart rate in dogs with arterial baroreceptor denervation, but not after ganglionic blockade. HF induced classic catecholamine desensitization to the inotropic effects of NE and blunted reflex bradycardia. In contrast, inotropic responses to BAY y 5959 were preserved in HF. Surprisingly, the autonomically mediated bradycardia induced by BAY y 5959 was also preserved in HF. Baroreflex sensitivity was assessed in control and in HF by pulse interval-systolic arterial blood pressure (PI/SAP) slopes constructed in response to pharmacological alterations in arterial pressure. HF depressed the PI/SAP slope from 11.5+/-1.3 to 4.8+/-0.9 ms/mm Hg, but during BAY y 5959 infusion in HF, the PI/SAP slope was restored to 24.1+/-5.2 ms/mm Hg. To assess central versus peripheral actions of BAY y 5959, the agent was infused with intra-carotid artery perfusion at a low dose, which acted centrally but did not have an effect peripherally. Under these conditions, it still decreased heart rate and restored baroreflex sensitivity (PI/SAP slope, 12.7+/-2.8 ms/mm Hg). CONCLUSIONS: Thus, the calcium promoter restores arterial baroreflex sensitivity in HF. Based on intra-carotid artery experiments, this occurs through a central nervous system and vagal mechanism.
ganglion|ganglionic|970|995|976|985|after ganglionic blockade.|

97|9694078.ab.5|M2
Three groups were identified based on the definitive surgical repair performed: group 1, construction lacking or incorporating a short ganglionic-aganglionic common channel (modified Soave or modified Duhamel, n = 8); group II, construction of an extended common channel (Martin-Duhamel, Martin-Soave; n = 6); and group III, all others including an intermediate-length common channel (n = 13).
ganglion|ganglionic|127|171|135|144|a short ganglionic-aganglionic common channel|
PMID- 9694078
TI  - Long-term morbidity in total colonic aganglionosis.  
AB  - BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: No surgical treatment for total colonic aganglionosis (TCA) clearly has been proven superior. To identify clinical criteria associated with long-term functional outcome, a 28-year retrospective institutional review of this entity from 1969 through 1996 inclusive was undertaken. METHODS: Total colonic aganglionosis (TCA), defined here as aganglionosis extending from the anus to at least the ileocecal valve but no further than 50 cm proximal to the ileocecal valve, was identified in 29 infants and children. Appropriate leveling ileostomy was performed in 28 of 29 patients, and definitive surgical reconstruction was performed in 26 of 29. Three groups were identified based on the definitive surgical repair performed: group 1, construction lacking or incorporating a short ganglionic-aganglionic common channel (modified Soave or modified Duhamel, n = 8); group II, construction of an extended common channel (Martin-Duhamel, Martin-Soave; n = 6); and group III, all others including an intermediate-length common channel (n = 13). RESULTS: Functional outcome at extended follow-up (mean, 6.6 +/- 5.6 years; range, 0.7 to 23) was determined based on survival, long-term ostomy requirements, growth, major complications, continence, and enterocolitis and bowel movement frequency. Although long-term functional outcome was deemed satisfactory in six of seven patients in group I, function was satisfactory in none of six group II patients. Group III results were intermediate (satisfactory in 6 of 13). CONCLUSIONS: Acceptable long-term outcome was most frequent in TCA patients whose definitive repair did not incorporate an extended ganglionic-aganglionic common channel. The use of extensive lengths of aganglionic bowel to maximize fluid absorption is frequently met with substantial morbidity.
ganglion|ganglionic|872|916|880|889|a short ganglionic-aganglionic common channel|

98|9694078.ab.9|M2
CONCLUSIONS: Acceptable long-term outcome was most frequent in TCA patients whose definitive repair did not incorporate an extended ganglionic-aganglionic common channel.
ganglion|ganglionic|120|169|132|141|an extended ganglionic-aganglionic common channel.|
PMID- 9694078
TI  - Long-term morbidity in total colonic aganglionosis.  
AB  - BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: No surgical treatment for total colonic aganglionosis (TCA) clearly has been proven superior. To identify clinical criteria associated with long-term functional outcome, a 28-year retrospective institutional review of this entity from 1969 through 1996 inclusive was undertaken. METHODS: Total colonic aganglionosis (TCA), defined here as aganglionosis extending from the anus to at least the ileocecal valve but no further than 50 cm proximal to the ileocecal valve, was identified in 29 infants and children. Appropriate leveling ileostomy was performed in 28 of 29 patients, and definitive surgical reconstruction was performed in 26 of 29. Three groups were identified based on the definitive surgical repair performed: group 1, construction lacking or incorporating a short ganglionic-aganglionic common channel (modified Soave or modified Duhamel, n = 8); group II, construction of an extended common channel (Martin-Duhamel, Martin-Soave; n = 6); and group III, all others including an intermediate-length common channel (n = 13). RESULTS: Functional outcome at extended follow-up (mean, 6.6 +/- 5.6 years; range, 0.7 to 23) was determined based on survival, long-term ostomy requirements, growth, major complications, continence, and enterocolitis and bowel movement frequency. Although long-term functional outcome was deemed satisfactory in six of seven patients in group I, function was satisfactory in none of six group II patients. Group III results were intermediate (satisfactory in 6 of 13). CONCLUSIONS: Acceptable long-term outcome was most frequent in TCA patients whose definitive repair did not incorporate an extended ganglionic-aganglionic common channel. The use of extensive lengths of aganglionic bowel to maximize fluid absorption is frequently met with substantial morbidity.
ganglion|ganglionic|1729|1778|1741|1750|an extended ganglionic-aganglionic common channel.|

99|9693303.ab.3|M2
We performed a time-sequence study on the distribution of in situ PCD, apoptosis, during the development of the mouse cochleovestibular ganglion by using the TUNEL method to detect apoptosis histochemically.
ganglion|ganglion|105|143|136|143|of the mouse cochleovestibular ganglion|
PMID- 9693303
TI  - Programmed cell death in the mouse cochleovestibular ganglion during development.  
AB  - Programmed cell death (PCD) is as essential to development as is cell proliferation. Our objective was to elucidate the spatiotemporal occurrence of PCD during the development of the cochleovestibular ganglion. We performed a time-sequence study on the distribution of in situ PCD, apoptosis, during the development of the mouse cochleovestibular ganglion by using the TUNEL method to detect apoptosis histochemically. Apoptosis in the cochleovestibular ganglion was observed from the 11.5th gestational day (GD) to the 18. 5th GD. Apoptosis was seen most extensively in the vestibular ganglion cells at the 13.5th GD, while in the spiral ganglion cells apoptosis was maximal between the 15.5th and 16.5th GD. Because these times of peak apoptotic activity almost exactly corresponded to the events of innervation and terminal mitosis of the cochleovestibular ganglion cells, we infer that PCD is involved in the innervation and modulates the number of cochleovestibular ganglion cells overproduced by terminal mitosis.
ganglion|ganglion|427|465|458|465|of the mouse cochleovestibular ganglion|

100|9711026.ab.3|M2
In order to fill the blanks left by previous studies, the extension of ganglionic branches and the formation of vibrissa connections were reexamined by using fluorescent carbocyanin dyes, DiI and DiA, during embryonic days 10 to 14 in mouse.
ganglion|ganglionic|68|89|71|80|of ganglionic branches|
PMID- 9711026
TI  - Differential fasciculation of follicular nerves for transferring specifically localized cues of the vibrissa rudiments to the central trigeminal sensory system in mice, as exploited with DiI and DiA labeling.  
AB  - Vibrissa connections play a decisive role in setting the somatotopic coordinates in the trigeminal sensory system. Although previous studies have examined the development of peripheral patterning, certain questions are still in dispute, for example, the way vibrissa connections are structured, and the relationship between periphery and central organization, and ganglion cell organization. In order to fill the blanks left by previous studies, the extension of ganglionic branches and the formation of vibrissa connections were reexamined by using fluorescent carbocyanin dyes, DiI and DiA, during embryonic days 10 to 14 in mouse. Whole-mount preparations satisfactorily demonstrated the ganglionic fiber system, which allowed detailed analysis at both macroscopic and microscopic levels. We show here that the differential fasciculation of follicular nerves is the critical process for organizing vibrissa connections which modulate the initially extending fiber pattern. Follicular nerves developed by fine fibers arising from initially ordered root fascicles, so as to connect with vibrissa rudiments that developed on the facial prominences. During differential fasciculation, ganglion cells were segregated into distinct groups by the vibrissa connections, whereas central fiber terminals did not yet develop specific structures in the nuclear region. In the primary order of the trigeminal sensory system, vibrissa connections in the periphery were organized before those of the central structure. These results indicate that trigeminal ganglion cells have a critical binomial function in order to transfer the somatotopic relations among vibrissa rudiments into the topographic coordinates of the central system.
ganglion|ganglionic|698|719|701|710|of ganglionic branches|

